Quebec Construction Code, Chapter I – Building, and National Building Code of Canada 2015 (amended)
Issued by the
National Research Council of Canada
 First Edition 2001 Second Edition 2008 Third Edition 2015 Fourth Edition 2022
NRCC-CONST-56594E
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022
Paper: ISBN 978-0-660-43691-3 Cat. No. NR24-20-1-2022E PDF: ISBN 978-0-660-43689-0 Cat. No. NR24-20/1-2022E-PDF
Printed in Canada First Printing
   Aussi disponible en français :
Code de construction du Québec, Chapitre I – Bâtiment, et Code national du bâtiment – Canada 2015 (modifié) NRCC-CONST-56594F
Papier : ISBN 978-0-660-43692-0
PDF : ISBN 978-0-660-43690-6
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

FOREWORD
The Régie du bâtiment du Québec and the National Research Council of Canada present the Quebec Construction Code, Chapter I – Building, and National Building Code of Canada 2015 (amended), which has been prepared to facilitate the application throughout the province of Quebec of the Construction Code adopted under the Building Act.
Coming into force
The amendments to Chapter I, Building, of the Construction Code came into force on January 8, 2022 (Order in Council 1419-2021, 2021 G.O. 2, 6909) and one more amendment came into force on June 2, 2022 (Order in Council 737-2022, 2022 G.O. 2, 2577).
Nevertheless, Chapter I of the Construction Code as it read on January 7, 2022, may apply to the construction or alteration of a building, as defined in that Chapter, provided that the work begins before July 8, 2023.
Divisions
The document has two divisions.
Division I contains Chapter I, Building, of the Construction Code without the amendments to the National Building Code of Canada 2015 (NBC) as adopted by the province of Quebec and mentioned in section 1.09.
Division II contains the 2015 NBC including the amendments adopted by the province of Quebec. The reader should note that these amendments are indicated with bold-type vertical lines in the margin. Reproduction of Chapter I, Building, including the Quebec amendments, has been authorized by Les Publications du Québec.
The edition of the NBC reproduced in Division II contains certain errata and revisions approved by the Canadian Commission on Building and Fire Codes published in September 2018. Code pages containing errata or revisions adopted by the province of Quebec are identified with the words “Amended Page” in the footer.
Questions or comments
The public are invited to submit their questions and comments regarding the amendments to the NBC 2015 as adopted by the province of Quebec, by writing to the following address:
La directrice de la réglementation
Régie du bâtiment du Québec
255, boulevard Crémazie Est, Suite 100 Montréal (Québec) H2M 1L5 projet.reglement@rbq.gouv.qc.ca
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

DIVISION I
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

chapter B-1.1, r. 2
Construction Code
Building Act
(chapter B-1.1, ss. 173, 176, 176.1, 178, 179, 185 and 192).
CHAPTER I
BUILDING
DIVISION I
SCOPE
1.01. In this chapter, unless the context indicates otherwise, “Code” means the “National Building Code of Canada 2015” (NRCC 56190), published by the Canadian Commission on Building and Fire Codes, National Research Council of Canada, including revisions and errata of September 2018 published by that body.
The Code is incorporated into this Chapter by reference, subject to the amendments specified in section 1.09.
1.02. Subject to the exemptions in section 1.04, this Chapter applies to all construction work that is performed on a building to which the Building Act (chapter B-1.1) applies and to any facility intended for use by the public designated in section 1.03 and to the vicinity of that building or facility.
For the purposes of this Division, the definitions set out in the Code apply, unless otherwise provided.
1.03. The following facilities are intended for use by the public for the purposes of section 10 of the Building Act (chapter B-1.1):
(1) stands, grandstands or exterior terraces whose highest point, above the ground, is more than 1.2 m and whose load capacity is more than 60 persons;
(2) tents or air-supported structures used
(a) as dwellings or care, treatment or detention occupancies whose floor area is 100 m2 or more; or
(b) as assembly occupancies or mercantile occupancies whose floor area is more than 150 m2 or whose load capacity is more than 60 persons;
(3) belvederes built with materials other than backfill and constituted of horizontal platforms linked by their construction elements whose total area is more than 100 m2 or whose load capacity is more than 60 persons including access facilities.
1.04. The following buildings, other than private seniors’ residences, are exempted from the application of this Chapter if used solely for one of the major occupancies provided for in the Code:
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

(1) an assembly occupancy not covered by subparagraph 6 that accommodates not more than 9 persons;
(2) a care or detention occupancy that constitutes
(a) a prison;
(b) a supervised education centre with or without detention facilities used to shelter or
accommodate not more than 9 persons; or
(c) a convalescent home, a care occupancy or assistance occupancy or a rehabilitation centre used to shelter or accommodate not more than 9 persons;
(3) a residential occupancy that constitutes
(a) a rooming house or an outfitter offering no lodgings that has not more than 9 rooms;
(b) a single-family dwelling in which a bed and breakfast is operated by a natural person, which is also used as the person’s residence, having not more than 5 bedrooms offered for rent;
(c) a single-family dwelling in which a school that accommodates less than
15 students at a time is operated by a natural person, which is also used as the person’s residence;
(d) a monastery, a convent or a novitiate whose owner is a religious corporation incorporated under a special Act of Québec or the Religious Corporations Act (chapter C-71), where that building or part of the building divided by a firewall is occupied by not more than 30 persons and has not more than 3 storeys in building height;
(e) (f) i. ii. (4)
(5) a mercantile occupancy having a total floor area of not more than 300 m2;
(6) a day care centre used to shelter or accommodate not more than 9 persons;
(7) a subway station;
(8) an agricultural facility; and
(9) an industrial occupancy.
a shelter used to shelter or accommodate not more than 9 persons; or a building used as a dwelling unit having
not more than 2 storeys in building height; or not more than 8 dwelling units;
a business and personal services occupancy having not more than 2 storeys in building height;
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

Despite the exemption provided for in the first paragraph, the energy efficiency requirements contained in Part 11 of the Code apply to the construction work performed on every building
(1) having a building area not more than 600 m2;
(2) having a building height not more than 3 storeys; and
(3) having a Group C major occupancy and housing only dwelling units.
DIVISION II
REFERENCES
1.05. A reference in this Chapter to a standard or a code is a reference to that standard or code as adopted by the chapter of the Construction Code or Safety Code
(chapter B-1.1, r. 3) or other regulation made under the Building Act (chapter B-1.1) that refers to it.
DIVISION III
PREFABRICATED BUILDINGS
1.06. In this Division, “prefabricated building” means any building all of whose sections or panels are manufactured.
1.07. A prefabricated building must not be sold, rented, exchanged or acquired, unless it has been certified to CAN/CSA Standard A277, “Procedure for certification of prefabricated buildings, modules, and panels,” published by the Canadian Standards Association.
1.08. Every prefabricated building that has received certification by a certification organization accredited by the Standards Council of Canada and whose certification seal or label attests to compliance with CAN/CSA Standard A277, “Procedure for certification of prefabricated buildings, modules, and panels,” is deemed to be certified.
DIVISION IV
AMENDMENTS TO THE CODE
1.09. (Publisher’s note: Amendments made by Québec to the 2015 National Building Code of Canada are incorporated in the Code reproduced in Division II.)
DIVISION V
OFFENCE
1.10. A contravention to any of the provisions of this Chapter constitutes an offence.
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

DIVISION II
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 National Building Code
of Canada 2015
(incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Issued by the
National Research Council of Canada
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Table of Contents
Volume 1
Preface
Relationship of the NBC to Standards Development and Conformity Assessment Canadian Commission on Building and Fire Codes and Standing Committees Revisions and Errata
Division A
Part 1 Part 2 Part 3
Division B
Part 1
Part 2
Part 3
Part 4
Part 5
Part 6
Part 7
Part 8 Appendix C Appendix D
Division C
Part 1 Part 2
Index
Division B
Part 9 Part 10 Part 11
Index
Compliance, Objectives and Functional Statements
Compliance Objectives
Functional Statements
Acceptable Solutions
General
Reserved
Fire Protection, Occupant Safety and Accessibility Structural Design
Environmental Separation
Heating, Ventilating and Air-conditioning Plumbing Services
Reserved
Climatic and Seismic Information Fire-Performance Ratings
Administrative Provisions
General
Administrative Provisions
Volume 2 Acceptable Solutions
Housing and Small Buildings
Existing Buildings under Alteration, Maintenance or Repair Energy Efficiency
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1

 Preface
The National Building Code of Canada 2015, together with the National Plumbing Code of Canada 2015, the National Fire Code of Canada 2015 and the National Energy Code of Canada for Buildings 2017, is an objective-based National Model Code that can be adopted by provincial and territorial governments. Codes Canada(1) are developed by the Canadian Commission on Building and Fire Codes (CCBFC).
In Canada, provincial and territorial governments have the authority to enact legislation that regulates building design and construction within their jurisdictions. This legislation may include the adoption of the National Building Code (NBC) without change or with modifications to suit local needs, and the enactment of other laws and regulations regarding building design and construction, including the requirements for professional involvement.
The NBC is a model code in the sense that it helps promote consistency among provincial and territorial building codes. Persons involved in the design or construction of a building should consult the provincial or territorial government concerned to find out which building code is applicable.
This edition of the NBC succeeds the 2010 edition.
Code Development
Development of Codes Canada
The Canadian Commission on Building and Fire Codes (CCBFC) is responsible for the content of the National Model Codes. The CCBFC is an independent body made up
of volunteers from across the country and from all facets of the code-user community. Members of the CCBFC and its standing committees include builders, engineers, skilled trade workers, architects, building owners, building operators, fire and building officials, manufacturers and representatives of general interests.
The CCBFC is advised on scope, policy and technical issues pertaining to the Codes by the Provincial/Territorial Policy Advisory Committee on Codes (PTPACC), which is a committee of senior representatives from provincial/territorial ministries responsible for the regulation of buildings, fire safety and plumbing in their jurisdictions. The PTPACC was created by the provinces and territories, with provision of guidance to the CCBFC as one of its main functions. Through the PTPACC and its subcommittees on building, fire and plumbing regulation, the provinces and territories are engaged in every phase of the model Code development process.
Codes Canada (formerly named the Canadian Codes Centre) of the National Research Council (NRC) provides technical and administrative support to the CCBFC and its standing committees. NRC publishes Codes Canada and periodic revisions to the Codes to address pressing issues.
The broader code-user community also makes a significant contribution to the model Code development process by submitting requests for changes or additions to the Codes
(1) The National Model Codes are now collectively referred to as “Codes Canada.”
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 v
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 and by commenting on the proposed changes during the public reviews that precede each new edition.
The CCBFC takes into consideration the advice received from the provinces and territories as well as code users’ comments at each stage of Code development. The scope and content of Codes Canada are determined on a consensus basis, which involves the review of technical, policy and practical concerns and debate on the implications of these concerns.
More information on the Code development process is available on NRC’s Web site. Printed copies of this information may also be requested from the Secretary of the CCBFC, whose address is provided at the end of this Preface.
National Building Code of Canada 2015
The National Building Code (NBC) sets out technical provisions for the design and construction of new buildings. It also applies to the alteration, change of use and demolition of existing buildings.
The NBC establishes requirements to address the following five objectives, which are fully described in Division A of the Code:
• safety
• health
• accessibility for persons with disabilities • fire and structural protection of buildings • environment
Code provisions do not necessarily address all the characteristics of buildings that might be considered to have a bearing on the Code’s objectives. Through the extensive consensus process used to develop and maintain Codes Canada (see the section entitled Development of Codes Canada), the code-user community has decided which characteristics should be regulated through the NBC.
Because the NBC is a model code, its requirements can be considered as the minimum acceptable measures required to adequately achieve the above-listed objectives, as recommended by the Canadian Commission on Building and Fire Codes. They become minimum acceptable requirements once they are adopted and passed into law or regulation by an authority having jurisdiction: i.e. the requirements represent the minimum level of performance required to achieve the objectives that is acceptable to the adopting authority.
Code users are also involved in the development of the NBC and they help determine the content. The Code development process is described in the section entitled Development of Codes Canada.
The NBC is a model code which, when adopted or adapted by a province or territory, becomes a regulation. It is not a textbook on building design or construction. The design of
a technically sound building depends upon many factors beyond simple compliance with building regulations. Such factors include the availability of knowledgeable practitioners who have received appropriate education, training and experience and who have some degree
of familiarity with the principles of good building practice and experience using textbooks, reference manuals and technical guides.
The NBC does not list acceptable proprietary building products. It establishes the criteria that building materials, products and assemblies must meet. Some of these criteria are explicitly stated in the NBC while others are incorporated by reference to material or product standards published by standards development organizations. Only those portions of the standards related to the objectives of this Code are mandatory parts of the NBC.
vi
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Preface
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Preface
Relationship between the National Building Code and the National Fire Code
The National Building Code (NBC) and National Fire Code (NFC) each contain provisions that deal with the safety of persons in buildings in the event of a fire and the protection of buildings from the effects of fire.(2) These two National Model Codes are developed
as complementary and coordinated documents to minimize the possibility of their containing conflicting provisions. It is expected that buildings comply with both the NBC and the NFC. The NBC generally applies at the time of construction and reconstruction while the NFC applies to the operation and maintenance of the fire-related features of buildings in use.
The scope of each of these Codes with respect to fire safety and fire protection can be summarized as follows:
The National Building Code covers the fire safety and fire protection features that are required to be incorporated in a building at the time of its original construction. Building codes typically no longer apply once a building is occupied, unless the building is undergoing alteration or change of use, or being demolished.
The National Fire Code includes provisions for:
• theongoingmaintenanceanduseofthefiresafetyandfireprotectionfeatures
incorporated in buildings
• theconductofactivitiesthatmightcausefirehazardsinandaroundbuildings
• limitationsonhazardouscontentsinandaroundbuildings
• the establishment of fire safety plans
• fire safety at construction and demolition sites
In addition, the NFC contains provisions regarding fire safety and fire protection features that must be added to existing buildings when certain hazardous activities or processes are introduced in these buildings.
Some of the NFC’s provisions are not duplicated directly in the NBC but are in fact adopted through cross-references to the NFC. Thus, some NFC provisions may apply to original construction, alterations, or changes in use.
Code Requirements
Every NBC requirement must address at least one of the Code’s five stated objectives, namely:
• safety
• health
• accessibility for persons with disabilities • fire and structural protection of buildings • environment
In dealing with proposed changes or additions to any Codes Canada, the CCBFC considers many issues such as the following:
• Doestheproposedrequirementprovidetheminimumlevelofperformance—and no more than the minimum—needed to achieve the Code’s objectives?
• WillpersonsresponsibleforCodecompliancebeabletoactonorimplementthe requirement using commonly accepted practices?
• Willenforcementagenciesbeabletoenforcetherequirement?
• Arethecostsofimplementingtherequirementjustifiable?
• Have the potential policy implications of the requirement been identified and
addressed?
• IstherebroadconsensusonthisrequirementamongCodeusersrepresentingall
facets of the design and construction industries as well as among provincial and territorial governments?
(2) The NFC also applies to other types of facilities besides buildings (e.g. tank farms and storage yards). Those applications are not discussed here.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 vii
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Guidelines for requesting changes to the NBC are available on NRC’s Web site. Printed copies of the guidelines may also be requested from the Secretary of the CCBFC, whose address is provided at the end of this Preface.
Objective-Based Code Format
The National Building Code (NBC) was published in an objective-based code format for the first time in 2005. This was the result of ten years of work on an initiative that arose out of the strategic plan adopted by the Canadian Commission on Building and Fire Codes (CCBFC) in 1995.
The NBC comprises three Divisions:
• Division A, which defines the scope of the Code and contains the objectives, the
functional statements and the conditions necessary to achieve compliance;
• Division B, which contains acceptable solutions (commonly referred to as “technical
requirements”) deemed to satisfy the objectives and functional statements listed in
Division A; and
• Division C, which contains administrative provisions.
A more complete description of this division-based structure is included in the section entitled Structure of Objective-Based Codes.
Each requirement in Division B is linked to three types of information:
• objectives(suchassafetyorhealth),whichindividualrequirementshelptoaddress,
• functional statements (statements on the functions of the building that a particular
requirement helps to achieve), and
• intentstatements(detailedstatementsonthespecificintentoftheprovision).
Objectives
The NBC’s objectives are fully defined in Section 2.2. of Division A. Most of the top-level objectives have two levels of sub-objectives.
The objectives describe, in very broad terms, the overall goals that the NBC’s requirements are intended to achieve. They serve to define the boundaries of the subject areas the Code addresses. However, the Code does not deal with all the issues that might be considered to fall within those boundaries.
The objectives describe undesirable situations and their consequences, which the Code aims to avoid occurring in buildings. The wording of most of the definitions of the objectives includes two key phrases: “limit the probability” and “unacceptable risk.” The phrase “limit the probability” is used to acknowledge that the NBC cannot entirely prevent those undesirable situations from happening. The phrase “unacceptable risk” acknowledges that the NBC cannot eliminate all risk: the “acceptable risk” is the risk remaining once compliance with the Code has been achieved.
The objectives are entirely qualitative and are not intended to be used on their own in the design and approval processes.
The objectives attributed to the requirements or portions of requirements in Division B are listed in a table following the provisions in each Part.
Functional Statements
The NBC’s functional statements are listed in Section 3.2. of Division A.
The functional statements are more detailed than the objectives: they describe conditions in the building that help satisfy the objectives. The functional statements and the objectives are interconnected: there may be several functional statements related to any one objective and a given functional statement may describe a function of the building that serves to achieve more than one objective.
viii
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Preface
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Preface
Like objectives, functional statements are entirely qualitative and are not intended to be used on their own in the design and approval processes.
The functional statements attributed to the requirements or portions of requirements in Division B are listed in a table following the provisions in each Part.
Intent Statements
Intent statements explain, in plain language, the basic thinking behind each Code provision contained in Division B. Intent statements, each of which is unique to the provision with which it is associated, explain how requirements help to achieve their attributed objectives and functional statements. Like the objectives, the intent statements are expressed in terms of risk avoidance and expected performance. They offer insight into the views of the responsible standing committees on what the Code provisions
are intended to achieve.
The intent statements serve explanatory purposes only and do not form an integral part of the Code provisions: as such, they are similar in function to the explanatory notes at the end of each Part. Due to the sheer volume of intent statements—thousands for the NBC alone—they are only available as part of an online Code subscription and as a separate electronic document entitled “Supplement to the NBC 2015: Intent Statements,” which is posted on NRC’s Web site.
All this additional information—objectives, functional statements and intent statements—is intended to facilitate the implementation of the Code in two ways:
• Clarity of intent: The objectives, functional statements and intent statements linked
to a Code requirement clarify the reasoning behind that requirement and facilitate understanding of what must be done to satisfy that requirement. This added information may also help avoid disputes between practitioners and officials over these types
of issues.
• Flexibility: The additional information allows for flexibility in Code compliance. A
person seeking to propose a new method or material not described or covered in the Code will be able to use the added information to understand the expected level of performance that their alternative solution must achieve to satisfy the Code.
Structure of Objective-Based Codes
The National Building Code (NBC) is organized into three Divisions, which are distributed across two volumes.
Division A: Compliance, Objectives and Functional Statements
Division A defines the scope of the NBC and presents the objectives that the Code addresses and the functions the building must perform to help to satisfy those objectives.
Division A cannot be used on its own as a basis for designing and constructing a building, or for evaluating a building’s compliance with the Code.
Division B: Acceptable Solutions
The term “acceptable solutions” refers to the technical provisions contained in the Code. It reflects the principle that building codes establish an acceptable level of risk or performance and underlines the fact that a code cannot describe all possible valid design and construction options. The term provokes the question “To whom are these solutions considered acceptable?” Acceptable solutions represent the minimum level of performance that will satisfy the NBC’s objectives and that is acceptable to an authority that adopts the NBC into law or regulation.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 ix
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 The requirements in Division B—the acceptable solutions—are linked to at least one objective and functional statement found in Division A. These linkages play an important role in allowing objective-based codes to accommodate innovation.
It is expected that the majority of Code users will primarily follow the acceptable solutions presented in Division B and that they will consult Division A only when seeking clarification on the application of Division B’s requirements to a particular situation, when considering an alternative solution, or to read the definition of selected terms in the context of the NBC.
Division C: Administrative Provisions
Division C contains administrative provisions relating to the application of the Code. Many provinces and territories establish their own administrative provisions upon adopting or adapting the NBC; having all the administrative provisions in one Division facilitates their customization to suit jurisdictional needs.
Relationship between Division A and Division B
Sentence 1.2.1.1.(1) of Division A is a very important sentence: it is a precise statement of the relationship between Divisions A and B and is central to the concept of objective-based codes.
Clause (a) makes it clear that the acceptable solutions in Division B are automatically deemed to satisfy the linked objectives and functional statements of Division A.
Clause (b) makes it clear that alternative solutions can be used in lieu of compliance with the acceptable solutions. However, to do something different from the acceptable solutions described in Division B, a builder, designer or building owner must show that their proposed alternative solution will perform at least as well as the acceptable solution(s) it is replacing. The objectives and functional statements attributed to the acceptable solution(s) identify the areas of performance where this equivalence must be demonstrated.
What’s New in the 2015 Edition
New Structure
This edition of the NBC has been restructured to improve ease of access to interdependent provisions. The explanatory Notes for Division B provisions—which were formerly grouped in Appendices A and B—are now included at the end of the Part to which
they apply (e.g., the Notes for Part 3 provisions are at the end of Part 3, etc.). The Attribution Tables are now included with each Part instead of being grouped in Volume 1. Appendices C and D are now at the end of Volume 1. Part 9 along with its Attribution Table and explanatory Notes is now self-contained in Volume 2.
Reorganization of Section 3.8.
To improve clarity and ease of use, the application and design provisions in Section 3.8. of Division B have been separated and regrouped according to subject matter into three Subsections: Scope, Application and Design.
x
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Preface
    1) Compliance with this Code shall be achieved by
a) complying with the applicable acceptable solutions in Division B (see Note
A-1.2.1.1.(1)(a)), or
b) using alternative solutions that will achieve at least the minimum level of
performance required by Division B in the areas defined by the objectives and functional statements attributed to the applicable acceptable solutions (see Note A-1.2.1.1.(1)(b)).
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Preface
Reorganization of Part 6
The provisions in Part 6 of Division B have been reorganized into a more logical sequence and divided according to major mechanical elements. General provisions are now grouped at the front end followed by system-specific provisions, which allows for easier, more intuitive access to information.
Relocation of Fire and Sound Resistance Tables
The fire and sound resistance tables—which were previously located in Appendix Note A-9.10.3.1. of Division B—have been moved to the end of the Part 9 provisions as Tables 9.10.3.1.-A and 9.10.3.1.-B. They have been relocated because they contain specifications for assembly construction that represent acceptable solutions to requirements for minimum sound transmission ratings in Parts 5 and 9 and to requirements for minimum fire-resistance ratings in Part 9.
Additional Information
Numbering System
A consistent numbering system has been used throughout the Codes Canada. The first number indicates the Part of the Code; the second, the Section in the Part; the third, the Subsection; and the fourth, the Article in the Subsection. The detailed provisions are found at the Sentence level (indicated by numbers in brackets), and Sentences may be broken down into Clauses and Subclauses. This structure is illustrated as follows:
3
3.5.
3.5.2.
3.5.2.1. 3.5.2.1.(2) 3.5.2.1.(2)(a) 3.5.2.1.(2)(a)(i)
Change Indication
Part Section Subsection Article Sentence Clause Subclause
Where a technical change or addition has been made relative to the 2010 edition, a vertical line has been added in the margin next to the affected provision to indicate the approximate location of new or modified content. No change indication is provided for renumbered or deleted content.
Meaning of the words “and” and “or” between the Clauses and Subclauses of a Sentence
Multiple Clauses and Subclauses are connected by the word “and” or “or” at the end of the second last Clause or Subclause in the series. Although this connecting word appears only once, it is meant to apply to all the preceding Clauses or Subclauses within that series.
For example, in a series of five Clauses—a) to e)—in a Code Sentence, the appearance of the word “and” at the end of Clause d) means that all Clauses in the Sentence are connected to each other with the word “and.” Similarly, in a series of five Clauses—a) to e)—in a Code Sentence, the appearance of the word “or” at the end of Clause d) means that all Clauses in the Sentence are connected to each other with the word “or.”
In all cases, it is important to note that a Clause (and its Subclauses, if any) must always be read in conjunction with its introductory text appearing at the beginning of the Sentence.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 xi
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Administration
A separate CCBFC document entitled Administrative Requirements for Use with the National Building Code of Canada 1985 is also published by the National Research Council. It is automatically adopted as per Article 2.2.1.1. of Division C if the adopting authority does not provide other administrative requirements.
Metric Conversion
All values in the NBC are given in metric units. A conversion table of imperial equivalents for the most common units used in building design and construction is located at the end of the Code.
Parts in Division B and Professional Disciplines
Division B is organized into Parts that are largely related to disciplines. However, this does not mean that persons of a certain discipline who are executing the design or construction of a particular building component can necessarily deal with only one Part of the Code in isolation since provisions related to that building component may be found in more than one Part.
For example:
• provisions that deal with fire safety issues related to heating, ventilating and
air-conditioning systems are located in Part 3 of Division B, Fire Protection, Occupant Safety and Accessibility, and not in Part 6, Heating, Ventilating and Air-conditioning;
• structural requirements related to loads on handrails and grab bars are located in Part 3 of Division B, Fire Protection, Occupant Safety and Accessibility, while structural requirements related to loads on guards and handrails are located in Part 4, Structural Design.
For this reason, the part-based structure of Division B is not well suited for use as the basis for allocating responsibilities to different professions or as the basis for contractual arrangements.
Complementary Publications
The following Codes Canada publications are referenced in the NBC 2015 or facilitate the application of its requirements:
National Fire Code of Canada 2015
National Plumbing Code of Canada 2015
Illustrated User’s Guide – NBC 2015: Part 9 of Division B, Housing and Small Buildings Structural Commentaries (User’s Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B)
Supplement to the NBC 2015: Intent Statements
Commercial Rights to Reproduce the National Building Code
Copyright for the National Building Code is owned by the National Research Council of Canada (NRC). All rights are reserved. Reproduction by any means of NRC’s copyright material is prohibited without the written consent of NRC. Request for permission to reproduce the National Building Code must be sent to:
Production and Marketing Manager Codes Canada
National Research Council of Canada Ottawa, Ontario K1A 0R6
E-mail: Codes@nrc-cnrc.gc.ca
xii
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Preface
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Preface
Contact Information
The CCBFC welcomes comments and suggestions for improvements to the National Building Code. Persons interested in requesting a change to an NBC provision should refer to the guidelines available on NRC’s Web site.
To submit comments or suggestions or to request printed copies of Internet material referred to in this Preface, contact:
The Secretary
Canadian Commission on Building and Fire Codes Codes Canada
National Research Council of Canada
Ottawa, Ontario K1A 0R6
Telephone: 613-993-9960
Fax: 613-952-4040
E-mail: Codes@nrc-cnrc.gc.ca
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 xiii
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022
xiv National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1

 Relationship of the NBC to Standards Development and Conformity Assessment
The development of many provisions in the National Building Code (NBC) and the assessment of conformity to those provisions are supported by several of the member organizations of Canada’s National Standards System (NSS).
The NSS is a federation of accredited organizations concerned with standards development, certification, testing, inspection, personnel and management systems registration that is established under the auspices of the Standards Council of Canada Act. Activities of the NSS are coordinated by the Standards Council of Canada (SCC), which has accredited 8 standards development organizations, 36 certification organizations, 21 registration organizations,
and 344 calibration and testing laboratories.
The SCC is a federal non-profit Crown corporation responsible for the coordination of voluntary standardization in Canada. It also has responsibilities for Canada’s activities in voluntary international standardization.
Canadian Standards
The NBC contains many references to standards published by accredited standards development organizations in Canada. As part of the accreditation requirements, these organizations adhere to the principles of consensus. This generally means substantial majority agreement of a committee comprising a balance of producer, user and general interest members, and the consideration of all negative comments. The organizations also have formal procedures for the second-level review of the technical preparation and balloting of standards prepared under their auspices. (The Canadian Commission on Building and Fire Codes (CCBFC) follows these same principles of consensus in the operation of its Code development process.)
The following organizations are accredited as standards development organizations in Canada:
• AmericanSocietyforTestingandMaterialsInternational(ASTM) • Bureau de normalisation du Québec (BNQ)
• Canadian General Standards Board (CGSB)
• Canadian Standards Association (CSA)
• Underwriters’ Laboratories (UL) • ULC Standards (ULC)
Tables 1.3.1.2. and D-1.1.2. of Division B list the standards referenced in the NBC. Standards proposed to be referenced in the NBC are reviewed to ensure their content is compatible with the Code. Thereafter, referenced standards are reviewed as needed during each Code cycle. Standards development organizations are asked to provide information on any changes in the status of their standards referenced in the NBC—withdrawals, amendments, new editions, etc. This information is passed on to the CCBFC, its standing committees, the provinces
and territories, and interested stakeholders on particular issues, all of whom are given the opportunity to identify any problems associated with the changes. These bodies do not necessarily review in detail the revised standards; rather, the approach relies on the consensus process involved in the maintenance of the standards and on the extensive knowledge and backgrounds of committee members, provincial or territorial staff, NRC staff, and consulted stakeholders to identify changes in the standards that might create problems in the Code.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 xv
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Non-Canadian Standards
A number of subject areas for which the Canadian standards development organizations have not developed standards are covered in the NBC. In these cases, the Code often references standards developed by organizations in other countries, such as the American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air-Conditioning Engineers (ASHRAE) and the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA). These standards are developed using processes that may differ from those used by the Canadian standards development organizations; nevertheless, these standards have been reviewed by the relevant standing committees and found to be acceptable.
Conformity Assessment
The NBC establishes minimum measures, either within its own text or that of referenced standards. However, the NBC does not deal with the question of who is responsible for assessing conformity to the measures or how those with this responsibility might carry it out. This responsibility is usually established by the governing legislation of the adopting provinces or territories. Provincial or territorial authorities should be consulted to determine who is responsible for conformity assessment within their jurisdiction.
Those persons responsible for ensuring that a material, appliance, system or equipment meets the requirements of this Code have several means available to assist them. These means vary from on-site inspection to the use of certification services provided by accredited third-party organizations. Test reports or mill certificates provided by manufacturers or suppliers can also assist in the acceptance of products. Engineering reports may be required for more complex products.
Testing
The accreditation programs of the SCC include many organizations accredited for testing and calibration that are capable of reliably testing building products to specified standards. The test results produced by these organizations can be used in the evaluation, qualification and certification of building products to Code provisions. The SCC’s Web site (www.scc.ca) lists accredited certification bodies and allows users to search the scope of accreditation for each of these organizations.
Certification
Certification is the confirmation by an independent organization that a product or service meets a requirement. Certification of a product, process, or system entails physical examination, testing as specified in the appropriate standards, plant examination, and follow-up unannounced plant inspections. This procedure leads to the issuing of a formal assurance or declaration, by means of a certification mark or certificate, that the product, process or system is in full conformity with specified provisions.
In some cases, a product for which no standard exists can be certified using procedures and criteria developed by the accredited certifying organization and specifically designed to measure the performance of that product. Certification bodies publish lists of certified products and companies.
Registration
Quality Registration Organizations assess a company’s conformance to quality assurance standards like the International Organization for Standardization ISO 9000.
Evaluation
An evaluation is a written opinion by an independent professional organization that a product will perform its intended function in a building. An evaluation is very often done to determine the ability of an innovative product, for which no standards exist, to satisfy
xvi
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Preface
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Preface
the intent of a Code requirement. Follow-up plant inspections are not normally part of the evaluation process. Several organizations, including the Canadian Construction Materials Centre (CCMC), offer such evaluation services.
Qualification
The qualification of building products also evaluates the ability of a product to perform its intended function by verifying that it meets the requirements of a standard. Qualification normally includes some follow-up plant inspection. Some organizations publish lists of qualified products that meet the specified requirements. Some organizations qualify manufacturing and/or testing facilities for building products for compliance with the Code and relevant standards.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 xvii
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022
xviii National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1

 Canadian Commission on Building and Fire Codes and Standing Committees
Canadian Commission on Building and Fire Codes
C. Fillingham (Chair)
D. Crawford (Vice Chair) R. Bartlett
A. Beaumont
A. Borooah
T. Cochren
A. Crimi
R. DeVall
B. Dion
E. Domingo
S. Dufresne
R. Dulmage
G. Fawcett
L. Francescutti
K. Gloge H. Griffin J. Hackett L. Holmen J. Huzar D. Ieroncig P. Jago
M. Kuzyk
L. Leduc
B. Lorne
D. MacKinnon M. McSweeney D. Miller
K.W. Newbert
J. Orr
R. Owens
R. Riffel
T. Ross
R. Rymell
J. Sherstobitoff B. Sim
G. Stasynec
B. Stebbing
D. Stewart
G. Tessier
P. Thorkelsson D. Thorsteinson M. Tovey
C. Tye
R. Vincent D. Watts B. Wyness
Codes Canada staff
who provided assistance to the Commission
D. Bergeron
G. Gosselin
A. Gribbon
P. Rizcallah (Deputy Chair)
Standing Committee on Building and Plumbing Services
Standing Committee on Earthquake Design
G.D. Stasynec (Chair) R.K. Armstrong
G.D. Burrill
P.T. Chang
J. Clark
C. Côté
A.R. Dallaway B.G. Diggens Y. Duchesne L. Gill
R. Gill
N. Grusnick D.C. Hickerty D.K.S. Hui
G. Jensen A.A. Knapp
R. Moulton C.O. Muller K.W. Newbert D.A. Pope S.A. Remedios R. Roberts C.R. Roy
A.J. Spurrell E.M. Sterling T.D. Underwood T.T. White
Codes Canada staff
who provided assistance to the Committee
D. Green
J. Sherstobitoff (Chair) J.E. Adams
D.L. Anderson
G.M. Atkinson
M. Bruneau
D. Carson R.H. DeVall
H. Dutrisac
K. Elwood W.D.L. Finn
R. Grimshaw J.L. Humar
G. Krsmanovic S. Kuan
T. Kokai A. Metten
D. Mitchell
C.J. Montgomery T. Onur
M. Popovski G.C. Rogers
M. Saatcioglu
R. Tremblay
R. Vincent
A. Wightman
Codes Canada staff
who provided assistance to the Committee
C.R. Taraschuk J. Singh
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
xix
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 xx
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Standing Committee on Energy Efficiency in Buildings
Standing Committee on Fire Protection
K.W. Newbert (Chair)(2) A. Pride (Chair)(1)
D.W. Bailey
D. Bartel
M. Bayat
S. Bioletti
N. Brisson
A. Cameron
R. Cardinal
J. Comtois
L. Dalgleish
B. Darrell
D. Dessario
J. Donovan
F. Genest
H. Hayne
C. Kahramanoglu M. Kelly
M.M. Lamanque K.W. Lau
D. Mather
Rd. Marshall Rt. Marshall
A. Pape-Saimon J. Pockar
M. Roy
T. Ryce
P. Sectakof
M. Slivar
A. Syed
R. Veerasammy T. White
W. Wang
Codes Canada staff
who provided assistance to the Committee
E. Girgis
H. Knudsen M. Mihailovic C. Taraschuk P. Tardif
M. Zeghal
A. Crimi (Chair)(2) R.G. Brown (Chair)(1) K. Bailey
P.D. Blackwood
C.F. Campbell
R. Cerminara
R. Cheung
G.S. Frater
K. Knox
M. Kohli
N. Lessard
H.A. Locke
R.J. McGrath
R.A. McPhee
R. Mercer
E. Piecuch
H.J. Pothier B.G. Schultz J.A. Scott E.A. Sopeju R. Swart
A. Tabet J. Zorko
Codes Canada staff
who provided assistance to the Committee
M. Fortin
S. Hyde-Clarke A. Laroche
G. Morinville P. Rizcallah
Standing Committee on Environmental Separation
G. Fawcett (Chair)(2) A. MacLellan-Bonnell
(Chair)(1)
K. McEown (Chair)(1)(2) M. Brockmann
P. Chamberland
D. Edgecombe
T. Espejo
E.G. Fernandes
R.P.R. Gaade
M. Gagné
H. Genest
E. La Rocque
M. Ng
P. Richards
G. Robichaud
W.P. Rodger
J.F. Selann
R.I. Stephenson A. Thériault
P.H. Thorkelsson B. Trussler
B. Wright
Codes Canada staff
who provided assistance to the Committee
M. Fortin
S. Hyde-Clarke A. Laroche
G. Morinville
D.L. Watts (Chair) R. Baker
S. Bioletti
R. Cardinal
J. Donovan
D. Inculet
D. Ionescu
R. Jutras
C. Kahramanoglu D. Kayll
T. Lee
D.W. Lovell R. Marshall
R. Ogle
R. Rocheleau L. Semko
A. Spino
D. Stones G.R. Sturgeon J. Wade
Codes Canada staff
who provided assistance to the Committee
M. Zeghal
Standing Committee on Hazardous Materials and Activities
Preface
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Preface
Standing Committee on Housing and Small Buildings
Standing Committee on Use and Egress
T. Cochren (Chair) P. Aitchison
A. Amir
C. Bélanger
A.L. Bortolussi H.W. Bromberg M. Brown
Y.H. Chui
B. Craig
S.L. Crowell C. Dagenais L. Dalgleish B. Deeks
R. Di Gaetano S. Dueck
R. Dupuis
L. Gareau
R. Gratton
S. Grbac
L. Hasan
J. Hockman K. Hykawy D. Johnston R. Jonkman R. Kadulski K. Koo
A. Lanteigne
M. Lasalle P. Lepper R. Lind M. Lio
R. Maling B. Maltby Z. May
C. McLellan R. Monsour B. Nantel N. Perozzo T. Pringle
F. Scrafield L. Semko G. Sharp M. Stiller L. Strobl R.S. Wilson
Codes Canada staff
who provided assistance to the Committee
N. Belrechid F. Lohmann M. Mihailovic J. Urquhart
E.A. Domingo (Chair) J.W. Archer
E.M. Beck
S. Bourdeau
K. Calder
P. Caron A.N. Cavers B.R. Everton R. Fraser
J. Goad
L.G. Hamre I.C. MacDonald D.B. Nauss
J.D. Redmond J. Rubes
C. Salvian
G. Sereda
R.R. Thompson B. Topping D.E. Weber
A. Weinstein
Codes Canada staff
who provided assistance to the Committee
M. Fortin
S. Hyde-Clarke A. Laroche
G. Morinville P. Rizcallah
Standing Committee on Structural Design
(1) Chair term commenced during the preparation of the 2015 Code.
(2) Chair term ended during the preparation of the 2015 Code.
R.B. Vincent (Chair) M. Allen
J.M. Bartel
D. Beaulieu
M.S. Buckley P.K.S. Chan R.G. Drysdale K. Drysdale G.A. Fenton M.I. Gilmor K.G. Griffiths T.R. Grimshaw H. Hong
P.A. Irwin
R.J. McGrath R.C. Merchant H. Mi
D. Mitchell
G.A. Nanji G.R. Newfield M.F. Picher
M. Rosseker R. Schuster P.K.W. Shek
J. Sherstobitoff I. Smith
A.J. Steen
S.F. Stiemer G.C. Williams A.F. Wong
Codes Canada staff
who provided assistance to the Committee
A. Attar
C.R. Taraschuk
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 xxi
Technical Translation Verification Committee
G. Harvey (Chair) F. Genest
A. Gobeil
B. Lagueux
M.C. Ratté I. Wagner
Codes Canada staff
who provided assistance to the Committee
I. Bastien
I. Lanteigne
G. Mougeot-Lemay
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022
xxii National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1

 Revisions and Errata
Issued by the Canadian Commission on Building and Fire Codes
The Change Summary table that follows describes revisions, errata and editorial modifications that apply to the National Building Code of Canada 2015:
• Revisions are changes deemed urgent that were posted for public review from November 6, 2017 to January 2, 2018 and have been approved by the Canadian Commission on Building and Fire Codes.
• Errata are corrections to existing text.
• Editorialupdatesareprovidedforinformationpurposesonly.
• Editorialchangesaremodificationsthatimproveclarity.
Code pages containing revisions and/or errata are identified with the words “Amended Page” in the footer; pages with editorial modifications and index pages with changes are not flagged.
Code users should contact their local authority having jurisdiction to find out if these revisions and errata apply in their province or territory.
Division
Preface
Code Reference
Change
editorial update
erratum
editorial update
revision revision
editorial change
erratum revision
revisions
revision erratum
revision erratum
Date (Y-M-D)
2018-09-28
2018-09-28 2018-09-28
2018-09-28 2018-09-28
2018-09-28
2018-09-28 2018-09-28
2018-09-28
2018-09-28 2018-09-28
2018-09-28 2018-09-28
Description of Change
A A-1.4.1.2.(1) A-1.4.1.2.(1)
B 1.3.1.1.(1) Table 1.3.1.2.
3.1.9.4.(2)
3.1.11.5.(3) 3.2.4.18.(11)
3.2.4.22.
3.2.4.23. 3.4.3.2.(6)
3.6.5.1.(1) 3.8.3.14.(1)
In first paragraph, reference to National Energy Code of Canada for Buildings 2015 was updated to read "2017"
Entry for "ASTC and STC:" references to decibels were deleted
Entry for "Dangerous Goods:" text in third paragraph was updated to read "The NBC 2015 nomenclature uses a descriptive approach to classifying dangerous goods, which is similar to the one used by ..."
Date stated in Sentence was revised to read “30 June 2017”
Document references were updated as applicable to reflect more recent editions published as of June 30, 2017
Sentence was revised to read "... forming part of an assembly required to have a fire-resistance rating need not conform to Sentence (1), provided ..."
The word "construction" was italicized in the term "combustible construction" Clause (d) was revised to read "... systems referred to in Articles 3.2.4.22. and
3.2.4.23. have ..."
Article was revised as follows:
Title was revised to read "Voice Communication Systems for High Buildings" Sentence (1) was revised to read "... required by Subsection 3.2.6. shall ..." Sentences (7), (8) and (10) were moved to new Article 3.2.4.23. with revisions Article was added
Reference to Note in Clause (a) was corrected to read "... (see Note A-3.4.3.2.(6)(a)), ..." and reference to Note after Sentence was corrected to read "(See Note A-3.4.3.2.(6).)"
Reference to "asbestos-cement" was deleted
Clause (a) was corrected to read "... with the rim located ..."
Change Summary — National Building Code of Canada 2015
Volume 1
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 xxiii
                © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division
B (continued)
Code Reference
Table 3.10.1.1.
Change
errata (unless otherwise indicated)
revision revision revision
Date (Y-M-D)
2018-09-28
Description of Change
xxiv
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
A-3.2.4.4.(2)
A-3.2.4.22.(1)(b)
A-3.8.3.6.(6) and (7)
Figure 4.1.6.5.-A 4.1.6.5.(3)
Table 4.1.6.10.
4.1.7.2. 4.1.7.8.(4) 4.1.8.1.(2)
4.1.8.4.(8) Table 4.1.8.6.
Table 4.1.8.9. 4.1.8.14.(1)
4.1.8.18.(13) 4.1.8.18.(14) 4.1.8.18.(15)
Table 4.5.1.1.
revision erratum erratum
erratum erratum erratum
erratum erratum erratum
erratum erratum
erratum erratum
erratum erratum erratum
errata
2018-09-28 2018-09-28 2018-09-28
2018-09-28 2018-09-28 2018-09-28
2018-09-28 2018-09-28 2018-09-28
2018-09-28 2018-09-28
2018-09-28 2018-09-28
2018-09-28 2018-09-28 2018-09-28
2018-09-28
Sentence 3.1.8.14.(6): entry was deleted
Sentence 3.1.11.5.(3): "[F02,F03-OS1.2] [F04-OS1.3]" was added
Sentence 3.2.2.50.(2): "[F02-OS1.2]" was replaced by "[F04-OS1.3]", and "[F02-OP1.2]" was replaced by "[F04-OP1.3]"
Sentence 3.2.2.53.(2): application statement for "[F03-OP1.2] [F04-OP1.2,OP1.3]" was corrected to read "... and to Clause (c)."
Sentence 3.2.2.58.(2): "[F02-OS1.2]" was replaced by "[F04-OS1.3]", and "[F02-OP1.2]" was replaced by "[F04-OP1.3]"
Article 3.2.3.2.: entry was deleted
Sentence 3.2.4.22.(7): entry was deleted
Sentence 3.2.4.22.(8): entry was deleted
Article 3.2.4.23.: entry was added as follows: "3.2.4.23. One-way Voice Communication Systems (1) [F11-OS1.5] (2) [F11-OS1.5] (3) [F11-OS1.5]"
Sentence 3.3.1.13.(1): "(d) [F10-OS3.7]" was added
Sentence 3.3.1.13.(2): "[F30-OS3.1]" was deleted
Sentence 3.3.6.2.(3): "[F01,F02,F03,F81-OP1.1,OP1.2]" was added
Sentence 3.7.3.1.(1): "[F01,F02-OS1.1]" and "[F01,F02-OP1.1]" were assigned to Clause (b)
Sentence 3.8.3.6.(7): "[F30,F73-OS3.1]" was corrected to read "[F30-OS3.1]"
Article 3.9.1.2.: entry was added as follows: "3.9.1.2. Application (1)(d) [F02-OS1.1]" Sentence 3.9.2.2.(3): "[F12-OP3.1]" was replaced by "[F56-OH3.1]"
Text was revised to read "... in combination with Article 3.2.4.22. or 3.2.4.23., ..."
Text was corrected to read "... Annex D of NFPA 72, ..."
Text was corrected to read "... identified with the International Symbol of Access or, ..."
In second equation from top, symbol "ß1" was corrected to read "ß" In last equation, term "0.8S" was corrected to read "0.8SS"
In second equation from bottom of fifth column, term "xh" in the numerator was corrected to read "h"
"(See Note A-4.1.7.2.)" was added after Article title
In the definition of , symbol "CeH" was deleted from the variable expression
In Clause (b), symbol "N60" was replaced by " 60", and symbol "Su" was replaced by "su"
The term "soils" was italicized
Superscript reference to Table Note (4) was added after title and deleted from "Notes" column
Subtitle was corrected to read "Forming Part of Sentences 4.1.8.9.(1) and (5)"
Sentence was restructured into clauses, and Clause (a) was corrected to read "... separated by a distance equal to at least the square root ..."
Reference to Note was corrected to read "(See Note A-4.1.8.18.(13).)" Reference to Note was corrected to read "(See Note A-4.1.8.18.(14) and (15).)"
Reference to Note at the end of Clause (c) was moved after Sentence and corrected to read "(See Note A-4.1.8.18.(14) and (15).)"
Table was corrected as follows:
Sentence 4.1.6.2.(8): "shape accumulation factor" was corrected to read "accumulation factor", and "(a) to (e)" was corrected to read "(a) to (f)"
Sentence 4.1.8.16.(2): application statements were deleted
Change Summary — National Building Code of Canada 2015 (Continued)
Table was corrected as follows:
Preface
                    © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Preface
Division
Code Reference
Change
erratum erratum
erratum erratum
erratum revision errata
Date (Y-M-D)
2018-09-28 2018-09-28
2018-09-28 2018-09-28
2018-09-28 2018-09-28 2018-09-28
Description of Change
In equation at bottom of Figure, symbol "xd" was corrected to read "xd" Note designation was corrected to read "A-4.1.7.2."
Note designation was corrected to read "A-4.1.8.18.(13)"
Note designation was corrected to read "A-4.1.8.18.(14) and (15)"
Change bar was added in the margin to indicate the addition of the text "and from spaces where noise may be generated"
Sentence was revised to read "Asbestos shall not be used in HVAC systems and equipment."
Table was corrected as follows:
Sentence 6.2.1.2.(2): "[F40,F44,F50-OH1.1]" was corrected to read "[F40,F50-OH1.1]", and "[F44-OS3.4]" was deleted
Sentence 6.2.1.2.(3): "[F40,F44,F50-OH1.1]" was corrected to read "[F40,F43,F44,F50-OH1.1]"
Sentence 6.3.2.9.(2): "[F44,F81-OH1.1]" was corrected to read "[F81-OH1.1]", and "[F41,F44-OH1.1]" was added
Sentence 6.3.2.10.(8): "[F40,F44,F50,F52-OH1.1]" was corrected to read "[F52-OH1.1]"
Sentence 6.3.2.10.(9): "[F40,F44,F50,F52-OH1.1]" was corrected to read "[F52-OH1.1]", and "[F01-OS1.1]" and "[F01-OP1.1]" were deleted
Sentence 6.3.2.14.(1): "[F81,F43-OH1.1]" was corrected to read "[F40,F50-OH1.1]", and "[F30-OS3.3]" was deleted
Sentence 6.3.2.15.(1): entry was deleted
Sentence 6.3.4.2.(1): "[F01-OP1.1]" was added and all Clause references were deleted
In section titled "Snow Loads", the term "unit weight" was corrected to read "specific weight"
Document references were updated as applicable to reflect more recent editions published as of June 30, 2017
Reference to "asbestos cement" was deleted
Sentence was corrected to read "... in Parts 2 and 3 of Division A."
Volume 2
Term "walkways" was romanized
Sentence was corrected to read "... for elevator machinery, stairways or service
rooms, ..."
Sentence was revised to read "...shall be wirelessly interconnected or interconnected
by hard-wiring ...", and "(See Note A-9.10.19.5.(2).)" was added after Sentence
Clause (b) was revised to read "... where non-fibered and non-asbestos-fibered (Types I and III) asphalt roll roofing are permitted,"
Article 9.20.4.2. was deleted because content was duplicated in Sentence 9.20.4.3.(3), and title of Article 9.20.4.3. was updated to read "Masonry Units"
Subclause (a)(ii) was corrected to read "... complying with Subsection 9.23.17. ..." Clause (a) was deleted
Clause (a) was corrected to read "... of this Section, ..."
Row for "Asbestos-Cement Corrugated Sheets" was deleted
Sentence (1) was revised to read "Except as permitted by Sentences (2) to (4), ...", and Sentences (5) and (6) were deleted
Sentence was revised to read "Except as permitted in Sentence 9.27.5.1.(4), ..."
In first column, first entry under "Wood shingles" was corrected to read "up to 200 mm in width"
B Figure
(continued)
A-4.1.6.7.(1)
A-4.1.7.2.(1) and (2)
A-4.1.8.18.(14)
A-4.1.8.18.(15) and (16)(c)
A-5.8. 6.2.1.7.(1) Table 6.10.1.1.
Appendix C Table D-1.1.2. D-4.3.1.
erratum revision
revision erratum
erratum erratum
revision revision
editorial change
erratum revision erratum revision revision
revision erratum
2018-09-28 2018-09-28
2018-09-28 2018-09-28
2018-09-28 2018-09-28
2018-09-28
2018-09-28
2018-09-28
2018-09-28 2018-09-28 2018-09-28 2018-09-28 2018-09-28
2018-09-28 2018-09-28
C 1.2.1.1.(2)
B 9.8.1.4.(1) 9.10.4.4.(1)
9.10.19.5.(2)
9.13.3.2.(2)
9.20.4.
9.23.13.1.(2) 9.25.2.3.(6) 9.26.1.2.(2) Table 9.26.3.1. 9.27.5.1.
9.27.5.3.(1) Table 9.27.5.4.
Change Summary — National Building Code of Canada 2015 (Continued)
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 xxv
                          © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division
B (continued)
Code Reference
9.30.5.1.(1) 9.33.4.8.(1)
9.33.6.2.(1) Table 9.36.4.2.
9.36.5.6.(8) 9.36.5.11.(19)
Table 9.37.1.1.
Change
revision revision
revision erratum
erratum
editorial change
errata (unless otherwise indicated)
Date (Y-M-D)
2018-09-28 2018-09-28
2018-09-28 2018-09-28
2018-09-28 2018-09-28
2018-09-28
Description of Change
Reference to "vinyl-asbestos" was deleted
Sentence was revised to read "Asbestos shall not be used in air distribution systems or equipment."
Reference to "asbestos-cement" was deleted
In last column, entry for gas-fired components with input ≥ 22 kW was corrected to read "Et ≥ 80% and standby loss ≤ rated input(4)/800 + 16.57·√(V)"
Sentence was corrected to read "... in accordance with Sentence 9.36.2.3.(1)." Sentence was updated to read "... that is lower than the flow rate of ..."
Table was corrected as follows:
Sentence 9.7.3.1.(3): "[F55-OH1.1]" was corrected to read "[F42,F55-OH1.1]", and "[F42-OH2.5]" was added
Sentence 9.8.4.7.(2): entry was deleted Sentence 9.8.4.7.(3): "[F10-OS3.7]" was deleted
Sentence 9.10.13.14.(1).: "[F03-OS1.2,OS1.3]" was corrected to read "[F03-OS1.3]", and "[F03-OP1.2,OP1.3]" was corrected to read "[F03-OP1.3]"
Sentence 9.10.17.10.(1): "(a),(b),(c)" was deleted
Sentence 9.10.17.10.(2): "[F01-OS1.1]" was corrected to read "[F05-OS1.5]", and "[F01-OP1.1]" was deleted
Sentence 9.13.2.2.(1): "[F40-OH1.1]" was deleted
Sentence 9.13.2.2.(2): "[F40-OH1.1]" and application statement were deleted, and application statement for "[F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]" was deleted
Sentence 9.13.2.3.(1): "[F40-OH1.1]" was deleted
Sentence 9.13.2.3.(2): "[F40-OH1.1]" was deleted
Sentence 9.13.2.3.(3): "[F40-OH1.1]" was deleted
Sentence 9.13.2.3.(4): "[F40-OH1.1]" and application statement were deleted, and application statement for "[F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]" was deleted
Sentence 9.13.2.3.(5): "[F40-OH1.1]" and application statement were deleted, and application statement for "[F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]" was deleted
Sentence 9.13.2.3.(6): "[F40-OH1.1]" and application statement were deleted
Sentence 9.13.2.4.(1): "[F40-OH1.1]" and application statement were deleted, and application statement for "[F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]" was deleted
Sentence 9.13.2.4.(2): "[F40-OH1.1]" was deleted
Sentence 9.13.2.4.(3): "[F40-OH1.1]" was deleted
Sentence 9.13.3.3.(1): "[F40-OH1.1]" was deleted
Sentence 9.13.3.3.(2): "[F40-OH1.1]" was deleted
Sentence 9.13.3.3.(3): "[F40-OH1.1]" and application statement were deleted Sentence 9.13.3.3.(4): "[F40-OH1.1]" and application statement were deleted Sentence 9.13.3.3.(5): "[F40-OH1.1]" and application statement were deleted Sentence 9.13.3.4.(1): "[F40-OH1.1]" was deleted
Sentence 9.13.3.4.(2): "[F40-OH1.1]" was deleted Sentence 9.13.3.4.(4): "[F40-OH1.1]" was deleted Article 9.20.4.2.: existing entry was deleted
Sentence 9.20.4.2.(3) (formerly 9.20.4.3.(3)): application statements for "[F20-OS2.3]" and "[F20-OP2.3]" were corrected to read "... environmental separator or are exposed to moisture."
Sentence 9.27.5.1.(5): entry was deleted Sentence 9.27.5.1.(6): entry was deleted
xxvi
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Change Summary — National Building Code of Canada 2015 (Continued)
editorial change
erratum
revision revision
Preface
         © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Preface
Division
B (continued)
Code Reference
Change
Date (Y-M-D)
Description of Change
Article 9.27.13.1.: entry was deleted
Sentence 9.32.1.3.(1): "[F50,F44,F40-OH1.1]" was corrected to read "[F40,F44,F50,F52-OH1.1]", and "[F52,F50-OH1.1]" and "[F44-OS3.4]" were deleted
Sentence 9.32.1.3.(2): "[F81-OP1.1]", "[F40,F80-OH1.1]" and "[F63,F80-OS2.3]" were added
Sentence 9.32.1.3.(3): "[F44,F50,F40-OH1.1]" was corrected to read "[F40,F44,F50,F52-OH1.1]", and "[F52,F50-OH1.1]" and "[F44-OS3.4]" were deleted
Article 9.36.2.8.: entry was added as follows: "(2) [F92-OE1.1]" Article 9.36.2.10.: entries were added as follows:
"(7) [F90-OE1.1]"
"(8) [F90-OE1.1]"
"(9) [F90-OE1.1]"
"(10) [F90-OE1.1]"
"(11) [F90-OE1.1]"
"(12) [F90-OE1.1]"
"(13) [F90-OE1.1]"
"(14) [F90-OE1.1]"
"(15) [F90-OE1.1]"
"(16) [F90-OE1.1]"
Sentence 9.36.3.6.(1): "[F92-OE1.1]" was corrected to read "[F95-OE1.1]" Sentence 9.36.3.8.(3): entry was deleted
Sentence 9.36.5.3.(1): entry was deleted
Sentence 9.36.5.4.(1): entry was deleted
Sentence 9.36.5.11.(7): entry was deleted
Sentence 9.36.5.12.(2): entry was deleted
In the last paragraph, the term "unit weight" was corrected to read "specific weight"
In plan view, label for top arrow was corrected to read "660 mm min. ...", and label for bottom arrow was corrected to read "190 mm min. ..."
Note was added
Volumes 1 and 2
"Apparent sound transmission class (ASTC)": "5.8.1.2." and "9.11.1.2." were added to "calculation of", and "compliance, 5.8.1.3., 9.11.1.3." was added
"Asbestos-cement pipe": entry was deleted
"Sound transmission class (STC)": "9.11.1.2." was added to "calculation of", and "9.11.1.3." was added to "compliance"
Index
A-9.4.2.2. Figure A-9.8.4.7.
A-9.10.19.5.(2) Letter A
Letter S
erratum erratum
revision
errata
revision errata
2018-09-28 2018-09-28
2018-09-28
2018-09-28
2018-09-28 2018-09-28
Change Summary — National Building Code of Canada 2015 (Continued)
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 xxvii
        © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022
xxviii National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1

 Division A
Compliance, Objectives and Functional Statements
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division A
Part 1 Compliance
1.1. General
1.1.1. Application of this Code .................. 1-1
1.2. Compliance
1.2.1. Compliance with this Code ............. 1-1
1.2.2. Materials, Appliances, Systems
and Equipment ................................. 1-1
1.3. Divisions A, B and C of this Code
1.3.1. General .............................................. 1-2
1.3.2. Application of Division A ................. 1-2
1.3.3. Application of Division B ................. 1-2
1.3.4. Application of Division C ................. 1-3
1.4. Terms and Abbreviations
1.4.1. Definitions of Words and Phrases .. 1-3
1.4.2. Symbols and Other
Abbreviations ................................. 1-13
1.5. Referenced Documents and Organizations
1.5.1. Referenced Documents ................. 1-15
1.5.2. Organizations ................................. 1-15
Notes to Part 1 ................ 1-17
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1

 Division A
Part 1 Compliance
Section 1.1. General
1.1.1. Application of this Code 1.1.1.1. Application of this Code
1) The NBC applies to the construction work performed on every building and facility intended for use by the public as provided in section 1.02 of Chapter I of the Construction Code (chapter B-1.1, r. 2) made pursuant to the Building Act (chapter B-1.1). (See Note A-1.1.1.1.(1).)
2) Deleted.
3) Farm buildings shall conform to the requirements in the National Farm Building
Code of Canada 1995.
Section 1.2. Compliance
1.2.1. Compliance with this Code 1.2.1.1. Compliance with this Code
1) Compliance with this Code shall be achieved by
a) complying with the applicable acceptable solutions in Division B (see
Note A-1.2.1.1.(1)(a)), or
b) using alternative solutions that will achieve at least the minimum level of
performance required by Division B in the areas defined by the objectives and functional statements attributed to the applicable acceptable solutions approved by the Régie du bâtiment du Québec or, in the case of buildings or facilities over which the Régie du bâtiment du Québec does not have jurisdiction, by the authority having jurisdiction (see Note A-1.2.1.1.(1)(b)).
2) For the purposes of compliance with this Code as required in
Clause 1.2.1.1.(1)(b), the objectives and functional statements attributed to the acceptable solutions in Division B shall be the objectives and functional statements referred to in Subsection 1.1.2. of Division B.
1.2.2. Materials, Appliances, Systems and Equipment
1.2.2.1. Characteristics of Materials, Appliances, Systems and Equipment
1) All materials, appliances, systems and equipment installed to meet the requirements of this Code shall possess the necessary characteristics to perform their intended functions when installed in a building.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division A 1-1
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 1.2.2.2.
Division A
1.2.2.2.
1.2.2.3.
Storage on the Building Site
1) All building materials, appliances and equipment on the building site shall be stored in such a way as to prevent the deterioration or impairment of their essential properties.
Used Materials, Appliances and Equipment
1) Unless otherwise specified, used materials, appliances and equipment are permitted to be reused when they meet the requirements of this Code for new materials and are satisfactory for the intended use.
Section 1.3. Divisions A, B and C of this Code
1.3.1. 1.3.1.1.
1.3.1.2.
1.3.1.3.
1.3.1.4.
1.3.2. 1.3.2.1.
1.3.3. 1.3.3.1.
General
Scope of Division A
1) Division A contains the compliance and application provisions, objectives and functional statements of this Code.
Scope of Division B
1) Division B contains the acceptable solutions of this Code.
Scope of Division C
1) Division C contains the administrative provisions of this Code.
Internal Cross-references
1) Where the Division of a referenced provision is not specified in this Code, it shall
mean that the referenced provision is in the same Division as the referencing provision.
Application of Division A Application of Parts 1, 2 and 3
1) Parts 1, 2 and 3 of Division A apply to all buildings covered in this Code. (See Article 1.1.1.1.)
Application of Division B Application of Parts 1, 7, 8, 10 and 11
1) Parts 1, 7 and 8 of Division B apply to all buildings covered in this Code. (See Article 1.1.1.1.)
2) Part 10 of Division B applies to every building under alteration, maintenance or repair that has been built for not less than 5 years, in accordance with section 1.02.
3) Part 11 of Division B on energy efficiency applies to the construction and addition work of all buildings covered by the NBC
a) having a building area not more than 600 m2,
b) having a building height not more than 3 storeys, and
c) having a Group C major occupancy and housing only dwelling units.
(See Article 1.1.1.1. and Note A-1.3.3.1.(3).)
Application of Parts 3, 4, 5 and 6
1) Parts 3, 4, 5, and 6 of Division B apply to all buildings described in Article 1.1.1.1. and
a) classified as post-disaster buildings,
b) used for major occupancies classified as
i) Group A, assembly occupancies,
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
1.3.3.2.
1-2 Division A
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division A
1.4.1.1.
1.3.3.3.
1.3.3.4.
1.3.4. 1.3.4.1.
c)
ii) GroupB,care,treatmentordetentionoccupancies,or
iii) GroupF,Division1,high-hazardindustrialoccupancies,or
exceeding 600 m2 in building area or exceeding 3 storeys in building height used for major occupancies classified as
i) Group C, residential occupancies,
ii) GroupD,businessandpersonalservicesoccupancies,
iii) Group E, mercantile occupancies, or
iv) Group F, Divisions 2 and 3, medium- and low-hazard
industrial occupancies.
Parts 3, 4, 5 and 6 of Division B apply to every facility intended for use by the public as provided in section 1.03 of Chapter I of the Construction Code (chapter B-1.1, r. 2).
Application of Part 9
1) Part 9 of Division B applies to all buildings described in Article 1.1.1.1. of 3 storeys or less in building height, having a building area not exceeding 600 m2, and used for major occupancies classified as
a) Group C, residential occupancies (see Note A-9.1.1.1.(1) of Division B),
b) Group D, business and personal services occupancies,
c) Group E, mercantile occupancies, or
d) Group F, Divisions 2 and 3, medium- and low-hazard industrial occupancies.
Building Size Determination
1) Where a firewall divides a building, each portion of the building so divided shall be considered as a separate building, except when this requirement is specifically modified in other parts of this Code. (See Note A-1.3.3.4.(1).)
2) Except as permitted in Sentence (3), where portions of a building are completely separated by a vertical fire separation that has a fire-resistance rating of not less than
1 h and extends through all storeys and service spaces of the separated portions, each separated portion is permitted to be considered as a separate building for the purpose of determining building height, provided
a) each separated portion is not more than 3 storeys in building height and is used only for residential occupancies, and
b) the unobstructed path of travel for a firefighter from the nearest street to one entrance of each separated portion is not more than 45 m.
(See Note A-1.3.3.4.(2).)
3) The vertical fire separation referred to in Sentence (2) may terminate at the floor assembly immediately above a basement provided the basement conforms to Article 3.2.1.2. of Division B.
Application of Division C Application of Parts 1 and 2
1) Parts 1 and 2 of Division C apply to all buildings covered in this Code. (See Article 1.1.1.1.)
2)
Section 1.4. Terms and Abbreviations
1.4.1. Definitions of Words and Phrases 1.4.1.1. Non-defined Terms
1) Words and phrases used in this Code that are not included in the list of definitions in Article 1.4.1.2. shall have the meanings that are commonly assigned to them in the context in which they are used, taking into account the specialized use of terms by the various trades and professions to which the terminology applies.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division A 1-3
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 1.4.1.2.
Division A
1.4.1.2.
2) Where objectives and functional statements are referred to in this Code, they shall be the objectives and functional statements described in Parts 2 and 3.
3) Where acceptable solutions are referred to in this Code, they shall be the provisions stated in Parts 3 to 11 of Division B.
4) Where alternative solutions are referred to in this Code, they shall be the alternative solutions mentioned in Clause 1.2.1.1.(1)(b).
Defined Terms
1) The words and terms in italics in this Code shall have the following meanings:
Access to exit means that part of a means of egress within a floor area that provides access to an exit serving the floor area.
Adfreezing means the adhesion of soil to a foundation unit resulting from the freezing of soil water. (Also referred to as “frost grip.”)
Air barrier system means the assembly installed to provide a continuous barrier to the movement of air.
Air-supported structure means a moveable structure consisting of a pliable membrane which achieves and maintains its shape and support by internal air pressure that is erected for a maximum period of 6 months.
Alarm signal means an audible signal transmitted throughout a zone or zones or throughout a building to advise occupants that a fire emergency exists.
Alert signal means an audible signal to advise designated persons of a fire emergency. Alteration means a change or extension to any matter or thing or to any occupancy
regulated by this Code. (See Note A-1.4.1.2.(1).)
Ambulatory clinic occupancy means a Group B, Division 2 treatment occupancy, other than a hospital, that provides treatment for a period not exceeding one day and does not provide overnight accommodation. (See Note A-1.4.1.2.(1).)
Apparent sound transmission class (ASTC) means a single number rating of the airborne sound attenuation of building assemblies separating two adjoining spaces, taking into account both the direct and flanking sound transmission paths. (See Note A-1.4.1.2.(1).) (See also Note A-9.11. of Division B.)
Appliance means a device to convert fuel into energy and includes all components, controls, wiring and piping required to be part of the device by the applicable standard referred to in this Code.
Artesian groundwater means a confined body of water under pressure in the ground.
Assembly occupancy means the occupancy or the use of a building, or part thereof,
by a gathering of persons for civic, political, travel, religious, social, educational, recreational or like purposes, or for the consumption of food or drink.
Attic or roof space means the space between the roof and the ceiling of the top storey or between a dwarf wall and a sloping roof.
Authority having jurisdiction means the Régie du bâtiment du Québec, a regional county municipality or a local municipality.
Barrier-free means that a building and its facilities can be approached, entered, and used by persons with physical or sensory disabilities.
Basement means a storey or storeys of a building located below the first storey.
Bearing surface means the contact surface between a foundation unit and the soil or rock
upon which it bears.
Boiler means pressure equipment equipped with a direct power source used to heat a heat-carrying liquid or transform it into steam.
Braced wall band means an imaginary continuous straight band extending vertically and horizontally through the building or part of the building, within which braced wall panels are constructed.
1-4 Division A
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
  © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division A 1.4.1.2.
Braced wall panel means a portion of a wood-frame wall where bracing, sheathing, cladding or interior finish is designed and installed to provide the required resistance to lateral loads due to wind or earthquake.
Breeching means a flue pipe or chamber for receiving flue gases from one or more flue connections and for discharging these gases through a single flue connection.
Building means any structure used or intended for supporting or sheltering any use or occupancy.
Building area means the greatest horizontal area of a building above grade within the outside surface of exterior walls or within the outside surface of exterior walls and the centre line of firewalls.
Building height (in storeys) means the number of storeys contained between the roof and the floor of the first storey.
Business and personal services occupancy means the occupancy or use of a building or part thereof for the transaction of business or the rendering or receiving of professional or personal services.
Caisson (see Pile).
Care means the provision of assistance services other than treatment by or through care facility management to residents who require these services because of cognitive, physical or behavioural limitations. (See Note A-1.4.1.2.(1).).
Care occupancy means a building or part thereof where care is provided to residents of a building or part thereof occupied by a private seniors’ residence. (See Note A-1.4.1.2.(1).)
Cavity wall means a construction of masonry units laid with a cavity between the wythes. The wythes are tied together with metal ties or bonding units, and are relied on to act together in resisting lateral loads.
Chimney means a primarily vertical shaft enclosing at least one flue for conducting flue gases to the outdoors.
Chimney liner means a conduit containing a chimney flue used as a lining of a masonry or concrete chimney.
Closure means a device or assembly for closing an opening through a fire separation or an exterior wall, such as a door, a shutter, a damper, wired glass or glass block, and includes all components such as hardware, closing devices, frames and anchors.
Combustible means that a material fails to meet the acceptance criteria of CAN/ULC-S114, “Test for Determination of Non-Combustibility in Building Materials.”
Combustible construction means that type of construction that does not meet the requirements for noncombustible construction.
Combustible dusts means dusts and particles that are ignitable and liable to produce an explosion.
Combustible fibres means finely divided, combustible vegetable or animal fibres and thin sheets or flakes of such materials which, in a loose, unbaled condition, present a flash fire hazard, including cotton, wool, hemp, sisal, jute, kapok, paper and cloth.
Combustible liquid means a liquid having a flash point at or above 37.8°C and below 93.3°C.
Conditioned space means any space within a building the temperature of which is controlled to limit variation in response to the exterior ambient temperature by the provision, either directly or indirectly, of heating or cooling over substantial portions of the year.
Constructor means a person who contracts with an owner or their authorized agent to undertake a project, and includes an owner who contracts with more than one person for the work on a project or undertakes the work on a project or any part thereof.
Contained use area means a supervised area containing one or more rooms in which occupant movement is restricted to a single room by security measures not under the control of the occupant.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division A 1-5
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 1.4.1.2.
Division A
1-6 Division A
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Cooktop means a cooking surface having one or more burners or heating elements.
Dangerous goods means products, materials or substances that are
(a) regulated by Transportation of Dangerous Goods Regulations (TDGR) (see
Table 3.2.7.1. of Division B of the NFC), or
(b) classifiedascontrolledproductsunderHCSOR/2015-17,“HazardousProducts
Regulations” (see Note A-Table 3.2.7.1. of Division B of the NFC). (See Note A-1.4.1.2.(1).)
Dead load means the weight of all permanent structural and non-structural components of a building.
Deep foundation means a foundation unit that provides support for a building by transferring loads either by end-bearing to soil or rock at considerable depth below the building, or by adhesion or friction, or both, in the soil or rock in which it is placed. Piles are the most common type of deep foundation.
Designer means the person responsible for the design.
Detention occupancy means the occupancy by persons who are restrained from or are incapable of evacuating to a safe location without the assistance of another person because of security measures not under their control.
Distillery means a process plant where distilled beverage alcohols are produced, concentrated or otherwise processed, and includes facilities on the same site where the concentrated products may be blended, mixed, stored or packaged.
Distilled beverage alcohol means a beverage that is produced by fermentation and contains more than 20% by volume of water-miscible alcohol.
Direct-vented (as applying to a fuel-fired space- or water-heating appliance) means
an appliance and its venting system in which all the combustion air is supplied directly from the outdoors and the products of combustion are vented directly to the outdoors via independent, totally enclosed passageways connected directly to the appliance.
Dwelling unit means a suite used or intended to be used by one or more persons as a residence and usually containing sanitary, cooking, eating and sleeping facilities.
Excavation means the space created by the removal of soil, rock or fill for the purposes of construction.
Exhaust duct means a duct through which air is conveyed from a room or space to the outdoors.
Exit means that part of a means of egress, including doorways, that leads from the floor area it serves to a separate building, an open public thoroughfare, or an exterior open space protected from fire exposure from the building and having access to an open public thoroughfare. (See Note A-1.4.1.2.(1).)
Exit level means the level of an exit stairway at which an exterior exit door or exit passageway leads to the exterior.
Exit storey (as applying to Subsection 3.2.6. of Division B) means a storey having an exterior exit door.
Exposing building face means that part of the exterior wall of a building that faces one direction and is located between ground level and the ceiling of its top storey
or, where a building is divided into fire compartments, the exterior wall of a fire compartment that faces one direction.
Factory-built chimney means a chimney consisting entirely of factory-made parts, each designed to be assembled with the other without requiring fabrication on site.
Farm building means a building or part thereof that does not contain a residential occupancy and that is associated with and located on land devoted to the practice
of farming, and used essentially for the housing of equipment or livestock, or the production, storage or processing of agricultural and horticultural produce or feeds. (See Note A-1.4.1.2.(1).)
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division A 1.4.1.2.
Fill means soil, rock, rubble, industrial waste such as slag, organic material or a combination of these that is transported and placed on the natural surface of soil or rock or organic terrain. It may or may not be compacted.
Fire block means a material, component or system that restricts the spread of fire within a concealed space or from a concealed space to an adjacent space.
Fire compartment means an enclosed space in a building that is separated from all other parts of the building by enclosing construction providing a fire separation having a required fire-resistance rating.
Fire damper means a closure consisting of a damper that is installed in an air distribution system or a wall or floor assembly and that is normally held open but designed
to close automatically in the event of a fire in order to maintain the integrity of
the fire separation.
Fire detector means a device that detects a fire condition and automatically initiates an electrical signal to actuate an alert signal or alarm signal and includes heat detectors and smoke detectors.
Fire load (as applying to an occupancy) means the combustible contents of a room or floor area expressed in terms of the average weight of combustible materials per unit area, from which the potential heat liberation may be calculated based on the calorific value of the materials, and includes the furnishings, finished floor, wall and ceiling finishes, trim and temporary and movable partitions.
Fire-protection rating means the time in minutes or hours that a closure will withstand the passage of flame when exposed to fire under specified conditions of test and performance criteria, or as otherwise prescribed in this Code.
Fire-resistance rating means the time in minutes or hours that a material or assembly of materials will withstand the passage of flame and the transmission of heat when exposed to fire under specified conditions of test and performance criteria, or as determined by extension or interpretation of information derived therefrom as prescribed in this Code. (See D-1.2.1.(2) in Appendix D of Division B.)
Fire-retardant-treated wood means wood or a wood product that has had its surface-burning characteristics, such as flame spread, rate of fuel contribution and density of smoke developed, reduced by impregnation with fire-retardant chemicals.
Fire separation means a construction assembly, with or without fire-resistance rating, that acts as a barrier against the spread of fire. (See Note A-1.4.1.2.(1).)
Fire stop means a system consisting of a material, component and means of support used to fill gaps between fire separations or between fire separations and other assemblies, or used around items that wholly or partially penetrate a fire separation.
Fire stop flap means a device intended for use in horizontal assemblies required to have a fire-resistance rating and incorporating protective ceiling membranes, which operates to close off a duct opening through the membrane in the event of a fire.
Firewall means a type of fire separation of noncombustible construction that subdivides a building or separates adjoining buildings to resist the spread of fire and that has a fire-resistance rating as prescribed in this Code and has structural stability to remain intact under fire conditions for the required fire-rated time.
First storey means the uppermost storey having its floor level not more than 2 m above grade.
Flame-spread rating means an index or classification indicating the extent of spread-of-flame on the surface of a material or an assembly of materials as determined in a standard fire test as prescribed in this Code.
Flammable liquid means a liquid having a flash point below 37.8°C and having a vapour pressure not more than 275.8 kPa (absolute) at 37.8°C as determined by ASTM D 323, “Vapor Pressure of Petroleum Products (Reid Method).”
Flash point means the minimum temperature at which a liquid within a container gives off vapour in sufficient concentration to form an ignitable mixture with air near the surface of the liquid.
Flight means a series of steps between landings. (See Note A-1.4.1.2.(1).)
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division A 1-7
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 1.4.1.2.
Division A
1-8 Division A
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Floor area means the space on any storey of a building between exterior walls and required firewalls, including the space occupied by interior walls and partitions, but not including exits, vertical service spaces, and their enclosing assemblies.
Flue means an enclosed passageway for conveying flue gases.
Flue collar means the portion of a fuel-fired appliance designed for the attachment of
the flue pipe or breeching.
Flue pipe means the pipe connecting the flue collar of an appliance to a chimney.
Forced-air furnace means a furnace equipped with a fan that provides the primary means for the circulation of air.
Foundation means a system or arrangement of foundation units through which the loads from a building are transferred to supporting soil or rock.
Foundation unit means one of the structural members of the foundation of a building such as a footing, raft or pile.
Frost action means the phenomenon that occurs when water in soil is subjected to freezing which, because of the water/ice phase change or ice lens growth, results in a total volume increase or the build-up of expansive forces under confined conditions or both, and the subsequent thawing that leads to loss of soil strength and increased compressibility.
Furnace means a space-heating appliance using warm air as the heating medium and usually having provision for the attachment of ducts.
Gas vent means that portion of a venting system designed to convey vent gases to the outdoors from the vent connector of a gas-fired appliance or directly from the appliance when a vent connector is not used.
Grade means the lowest of the average levels of finished ground, measured along each exterior wall of a building that must face a street in conformance with Subsection 3.2.2. or Subsection 9.10.20.
Groundwater means a free standing body of water in the ground.
Groundwater level (groundwater table) means the top surface of a free standing body
of water in the ground.
Guard means a protective barrier around openings in floors or at the open sides of stairs, landings, balconies, mezzanines, galleries, raised walkways or other locations to prevent accidental falls from one level to another. Such a barrier may or may not have openings through it.
Heat detector means a fire detector designed to operate at a predetermined temperature or rate of temperature rise.
Heavy timber construction means that type of combustible construction in which a degree of fire safety is attained by placing limitations on the sizes of wood structural members and on the thickness and composition of wood floors and roofs and by the avoidance of concealed spaces under floors and roofs.
High-hazard industrial occupancy (Group F, Division 1) means an industrial occupancy containing sufficient quantities of highly combustible and flammable or explosive materials which, because of their inherent characteristics, constitute a special fire hazard.
Horizontal exit means an exit from one building to another by means of a doorway, vestibule, walkway, bridge or balcony.
Horizontal service space means a space such as an attic, duct, ceiling, roof or crawl space oriented essentially in a horizontal plane, concealed and generally inaccessible, through which building service facilities such as pipes, ducts and wiring may pass.
Impeded egress zone means a supervised area in which occupants have free movement but require the release, by security personnel, of security doors at the boundary before they are able to leave the area, but does not include a contained use area.
Indirect service water heater means a service water heater that derives its heat from a heating medium such as warm air, steam or hot water.
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division A 1.4.1.2.
Industrial occupancy means the occupancy or use of a building or part thereof for the assembling, fabricating, manufacturing, processing, repairing or storing of goods and materials.
Interconnected floor space means superimposed floor areas or parts of floor areas in which floor assemblies that are required to be fire separations are penetrated by openings that are not provided with closures.
Limiting distance means the distance from an exposing building face to a property line, the centre line of a street, lane or public thoroughfare, or to an imaginary line between
2 buildings or fire compartments on the same property, measured at right angles to the exposing building face.
Live load means a variable load due to the intended use and occupancy that is to be assumed in the design of the structural members of a building. It includes loads due to cranes and the pressure of liquids in containers.
Loadbearing (as applying to a building element) means subjected to or designed to carry loads in addition to its own dead load, excepting a wall element subjected only to wind or earthquake loads in addition to its own dead load.
Low-hazard industrial occupancy (Group F, Division 3) means an industrial occupancy in which the combustible content is not more than 50 kg/m2 or 1 200 MJ/m2 of floor area.
Major occupancy means the principal occupancy for which a building or part thereof
is used or intended to be used, and shall be deemed to include the subsidiary occupancies that are an integral part of the principal occupancy. The major occupancy classifications used in this Code are as follows:
A1 –
A2 – A3 – A4 – B1 –
B2 – B3 – C – D – E – F1 – F2 – F3 –
Assembly occupancies intended for the production and viewing of the performing arts
Assembly occupancies not elsewhere classified in Group A
Assembly occupancies of the arena type
Assembly occupancies in which the occupants are gathered in the open air
Detentionoccupanciesinwhichpersonsareunderrestraintorareincapable of self-preservation because of security measures not under their control
Treatment occupancies
Care occupancies
Residential occupancies
Business and personal services occupancies Mercantile occupancies
High-hazard industrial occupancies Medium-hazard industrial occupancies Low-hazard industrial occupancies
Masonry or concrete chimney means a chimney of brick, stone, concrete or masonry units constructed on site.
Means of egress means a continuous path of travel provided for the escape of persons from any point in a building or contained open space to a separate building, an open public thoroughfare, or an exterior open space protected from fire exposure from the building and having access to an open public thoroughfare. Means of egress includes exits and access to exits.
Mechanically vented (as applying to a fuel-fired space- or water-heating appliance) means an appliance and its combustion venting system in which the products of combustion are entirely exhausted to the outdoors by a mechanical device, such as a fan, blower or aspirator, upstream or downstream from the combustion zone of the appliance, and the portion of the combustion venting system that is downstream of the fan, blower or aspirator is sealed and does not include draft hoods or draft control devices. (See Note A-1.4.1.2.(1).)
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division A 1-9
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 1.4.1.2.
Division A
1-10 Division A
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Medium-hazard industrial occupancy (Group F, Division 2) means an industrial occupancy in which the combustible content is more than 50 kg/m2 or 1 200 MJ/m 2 of floor area and not classified as a high-hazard industrial occupancy.
Mercantile occupancy means the occupancy or use of a building or part thereof for the displaying or selling of retail goods, wares or merchandise.
Mezzanine means an intermediate floor assembly between the floor and ceiling of any room or storey and includes an interior balcony.
Noncombustible means that a material meets the acceptance criteria of CAN/ULC-S114, “Test for Determination of Non-Combustibility in Building Materials.”
Noncombustible construction means that type of construction in which a degree of fire safety is attained by the use of noncombustible materials for structural members and other building assemblies.
Occupancy means the use or intended use of a building or part thereof for the shelter or support of persons, animals or property.
Occupant load means the number of persons for which a building or part thereof is designed.
Open-air storey means a storey in which at least 25% of the total area of its perimeter walls is open to the outdoors in a manner that will provide cross-ventilation to the entire storey.
Overall thermal transmittance (U-value) means the rate at which heat is transferred through a building assembly that is subject to a temperature difference. The overall thermal transmittance represents the amount of heat transferred through a unit area in a unit of time induced under steady-state conditions by a unit temperature difference between the environments on its two faces. The U-value reflects the capacity of all elements to transfer heat through the thickness of the assembly, as well as, for instance, through air films on both faces for above-ground components.
Owner means any person, firm or corporation controlling the property under consideration.
Partition means an interior wall 1 storey or part-storey in height that is not loadbearing.
Party wall means a wall jointly owned and jointly used by 2 parties under easement agreement or by right in law, and erected at or upon a line separating 2 parcels of land each of which is, or is capable of being, a separate real-estate entity.
Perched groundwater means a free standing body of water in the ground extending to a limited depth.
Pile means a slender deep foundation unit made of materials such as wood, steel or concrete or a combination thereof, that is either premanufactured and placed by driving, jacking, jetting or screwing, or cast-in-place in a hole formed by driving, excavating or boring. (Cast-in-place bored piles are often referred to as caissons in Canada.)
Plenum means a chamber forming part of an air duct system.
Plumbing system means a drainage system, a venting system and a water system or
parts thereof.
Post-disaster building means a building that is essential to the provision of services in the event of a disaster, and includes
• hospitals,emergencytreatmentfacilitiesandbloodbanks,
• telephone exchanges,
• powergeneratingstationsandelectricalsubstations,
• controlcentresforair,landandmarinetransportation,
• publicwatertreatmentandstoragefacilities,andpumpingstations,
• sewage treatment facilities and buildings having critical national defence
functions, and
• buildingsofthefollowingtypes,unlessexemptedfromthisdesignationbythe
authority having jurisdiction:
• emergency response facilities,
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division A 1.4.1.2.
• fire,rescueandpolicestationsandhousingforvehicles,aircraftorboats used for such purposes, and
• communicationsfacilities,includingradioandtelevisionstations. (See Note A-1.4.1.2.(1).)
Private seniors’ residence (Group B, Division 3) means a private seniors’ residence as defined in the Act respecting health services and social services (chapter S-4.2).
Private sewage disposal system means a privately owned plant for the treatment and disposal of sewage (such as a septic tank with an absorption field).
Process plant means an industrial occupancy where materials, including flammable liquids, combustible liquids, or gases, are produced or used in a process. (See Table 3.2.7.1. of Division B of the NFC.)
Protected floor space means that part of a floor area protected from the effects of fire and used as part of a means of egress from an interconnected floor space.
Public corridor means a corridor that provides access to exit from more than one suite. (See Note A-1.4.1.2.(1).)
Public way means a sidewalk, street, highway, square or other open space to which the public has access, as of right or by invitation, expressed or implied.
Repair garage means a building or part thereof where facilities are provided for the repair or servicing of motor vehicles.
Residential occupancy means the occupancy or use of a building or part thereof by persons for whom sleeping accommodation is provided but who are not harboured for the purpose of receiving care or treatment and are not involuntarily detained.
Return duct means a duct for conveying air from a space being heated, ventilated or air-conditioned back to the heating, ventilating or air-conditioning appliance.
Rim joist means the outermost member in floor framing, other than blocking, be it parallel, perpendicular or on an angle to the floor joists. (See Note A-1.4.1.2.(1).)
Rock means that portion of the earth’s crust that is consolidated, coherent and relatively hard and is a naturally formed, solidly bonded, mass of mineral matter that cannot readily be broken by hand.
Run means the horizontal distance between two adjacent tread nosings on a stair. (See Figure A-9.8.4.-B in Note A-9.8.4. of Division B.)
Sanitary drainage system means a drainage system that conducts sewage.
Secondary suite means a self-contained dwelling unit with a prescribed floor area located in a building or portion of a building of only residential occupancy that contains only one other dwelling unit and common spaces, and where both dwelling units constitute a single real estate entity. (See Note A-1.4.1.2.(1) and Article 9.1.2.1. of Division B.)
Service room means a room provided in a building to contain equipment associated with building services. (See Note A-1.4.1.2.(1).)
Service space means space provided in a building to facilitate or conceal the installation of building service facilities such as chutes, ducts, pipes, shafts or wires.
Service water heater means a device for heating water for plumbing services. Shallow foundation means a foundation unit that derives its support from soil or rock
located close to the lowest part of the building that it supports.
Single-family type care occupancy means a single-family dwelling not more than 2 storeys in building height in which a natural person who resides in that dwelling operates a care occupancy and lodges no more than 9 persons. A single-family type private seniors’ residence is a single-family type care occupancy.
Single-family type private seniors’ residence (Group B, Division 3) means a single-family dwelling not more than 2 storeys in building height in which a natural person who resides in that dwelling operates a private seniors’ residence and lodges no more than 9 persons.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division A 1-11
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 1.4.1.2.
Division A
1-12 Division A
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Smoke alarm means a combined smoke detector and audible alarm device designed to sound an alarm within the room or suite in which it is located upon the detection of smoke within that room or suite.
Smoke detector means a fire detector designed to operate when the concentration of airborne combustion products exceeds a predetermined level.
Soil means that portion of the earth’s crust that is fragmentary, or such that some individual particles of a dried sample may be readily separated by agitation in water; it includes boulders, cobbles, gravel, sand, silt, clay and organic matter.
Solid masonry means a single wythe or multi-wythe construction made of solid masonry units or semi-solid, cored, or hollow masonry units, the cells of which may or may not be filled with mortar or grout. In multi-wythe masonry construction, the space between the wythes consists of a mortar-filled collar joint or grout-filled space and the wythes may or may not be constructed of the same masonry materials.
Solid masonry unit means a concrete block or brick unit, a clay brick unit, or calcium silicate brick unit whose net solid area is at least 75% of its gross area. (See Note A-1.4.1.2.(1).)
Sound transmission class (STC) means a single number rating of the airborne sound attenuation of a building assembly separating two adjoining spaces, taking into account the direct sound transmission path. (See Note A-1.4.1.2.(1).) (See also Note A-9.11. of Division B.)
Space heater means a space-heating appliance for heating the room or space within which it is located, without the use of ducts.
Space-heating appliance means an appliance intended for the supplying of heat to a room or space directly, such as a space heater, fireplace or unit heater, or to rooms or spaces of a building through a heating system such as a central furnace or boiler.
Sprinklered (as applying to a building or part thereof) means that the building or part thereof is equipped with a system of automatic sprinklers.
Stage means a space that is designed primarily for public performances with provision for quick change scenery and overhead lighting, including environmental control for a wide range of lighting and sound effects and that is traditionally, but not necessarily, separated from the audience by a proscenium wall and curtain opening.
Storage garage means a building or part thereof intended for the storage or parking of motor vehicles and containing no provision for the repair or servicing of such vehicles. (See Note A-1.4.1.2.(1).)
Storage-type service water heater means a service water heater with an integral hot water storage tank.
Storey means that portion of a building that is situated between the top of any floor and the top of the floor next above it, and if there is no floor above it, that portion between the top of such floor and the ceiling above it.
Stove means an appliance intended for cooking and space heating.
Street means any highway, road, boulevard, square or other improved thoroughfare 9 m or more in width, that has been dedicated or deeded for public use and is accessible to fire department vehicles and equipment.
Subsurface investigation means the appraisal of the general subsurface conditions at
a building site by analysis of information gained by such methods as geological surveys, in situ testing, sampling, visual inspection, laboratory testing of samples of the subsurface materials and groundwater observations and measurements.
Suite means a single room or series of rooms of complementary use, operated under a single tenancy, and includes dwelling units, individual guest rooms in motels, hotels, boarding houses, rooming houses and dormitories as well as individual stores and individual or complementary rooms for business and personal services occupancies. (See Note A-1.4.1.2.(1).)
Supply duct means a duct for conveying air from a heating, ventilating or air-conditioning appliance to a space to be heated, ventilated or air-conditioned.
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division A 1.4.2.1.
Tapered tread means a tread with non-parallel edges that increases or decreases its run uniformly over its width.
Tent means a flexible, portable shelter made of canvas set up outdoors for not more than 6 months.
Theatre means a place of assembly intended for public performances or viewing of plays, operas, cinematographic works or other similar performances or viewing consisting of an auditorium with permanently fixed seats intended solely for a viewing audience.
Thermal bridge means a heat conductive member that results in a reduction of the total thermal resistance of a separation or a part of the building envelope.
Total thermal resistance (RSIT value) means the thermal resistance of a separation equal to the sum of the thermal resistance of all the layers of material or little or unventilated air composing the separation, calculated through the insulated portion of the separation. (See Note A-1.4.1.2.(1).)
Treatment means the provision of medical or other health-related intervention to persons, where the administration or lack of administration of these interventions may render them incapable of evacuating to a safe location without the assistance of another person. (See Note A-1.4.1.2.(1).)
Treatment occupancy (Group B, Division 2) means a building or part thereof for the provision of treatment. (See Note A-1.4.1.2.(1).)
Unit heater means a suspended space heater with an integral air-circulating fan.
Unprotected opening (as applying to exposing building face) means a doorway, window or opening other than one equipped with a closure having the required fire-protection rating, or any part of a wall forming part of the exposing building face that has a fire-resistance rating less than that required for the exposing building face.
Unsafe condition means any condition that could cause undue hazard to the life, limb or health of any person authorized or expected to be on or about the premises.
Unstable liquid means a liquid, including flammable liquids and combustible liquids, that is chemically reactive to the extent that it will vigorously react or decompose at or near normal temperature and pressure conditions or that is chemically unstable when subjected to impact.
Vapour barrier means the elements installed to control the diffusion of water vapour.
Vent connector (as applying to heating or cooling systems) means the part of a venting system that conducts the flue gases or vent gases from the flue collar of a gas appliance to the chimney or gas vent, and may include a draft control device.
Vertical service space means a shaft oriented essentially vertically that is provided in a building to facilitate the installation of building services including mechanical, electrical and plumbing installations and facilities such as elevators, freight elevators, refuse chutes and linen chutes.
Walkway means a covered or roofed pedestrian thoroughfare used to connect 2 or more buildings.
1.4.2. Symbols and Other Abbreviations 1.4.2.1. Symbols and Other Abbreviations
1) The symbols and other abbreviations in this Code shall have the meanings assigned to them in this Article and Article 1.3.2.1. of Division B.
1 in 2 ............ cm ................. ° .................... °C ................. dBA .............. diam .............
slope of 1 vertical to 2 horizontal centimetre(s)
degree(s)
degree(s) Celsius
A-weighted sound level diameter
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division A 1-13
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 1.4.2.1.
Division A
1-14 Division A
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
g .................... h .................... HDD ............ HVAC .......... Hz ................. J ..................... K ................... kg ................. kN ................ kPa ............... kW ................ L ................... lx ................... m .................. M .................. max. ............. min. .............. min ............... MJ ................. mm ............... MPa .............. N ................... n/a ................ ng ................. No. ............... o.c. ................ OSB .............. PM ................ ppb ............... ppm .............. R ................... RSI ................ s .................... W .................. % ................... μg ................. μm ................ U-value ........
gram(s)
hour(s)
heating degree-day(s)
heating, ventilating and air-conditioning hertz
joule(s)
degree(s) Kelvin
kilogram(s)
kilonewton(s)
kilopascal(s)
kilowatt(s)
litre(s)
lux
metre(s)
metric nomenclature for reinforcing bars maximum
minimum
minute(s)
megajoule(s)
millimetre(s)
megapascal(s)
newton
not applicable
nanogram(s)
number(s)
on centre
oriented strandboard
particulate matter
part(s) per billion
part(s) per million
thermal resistance value (imperial unit) thermal resistance value (metric unit) second(s)
watt(s)
percent
microgram(s)
micrometre(s)
overall thermal transmittance
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division A 1.5.2.1.
Section 1.5. Referenced Documents and Organizations
1.5.1. 1.5.1.1.
Referenced Documents Application of Referenced Documents
1) Except as provided in Sentence (2), the provisions of documents referenced in this Code, and of any documents referenced within those documents, apply only
to the extent that they relate to
a) buildings, and
b) the objectives and functional statements attributed to the applicable
acceptable solutions in Division B where the documents are referenced.
(See Note A-1.5.1.1.(1).)
2) Where a provision of this Code references another National Model Code, the applicable objectives and functional statements shall include those found in that referenced National Model Code.
Conflicting Requirements
1) In case of conflict between the provisions of this Code and those of a referenced
document, the provisions of this Code shall govern.
Applicable Editions
1) Where documents are referenced in this Code, they shall be the editions
designated in Subsection 1.3.1. of Division B.
Organizations
Abbreviations of Proper Names
1) The abbreviations of proper names in this Code shall have the meanings assigned to them in Article 1.3.2.1. of Division B.
1.5.1.2.
1.5.1.3.
1.5.2. 1.5.2.1.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division A 1-15
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022
1-16 Division A National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1

 Division A
Notes to Part 1 Compliance
A-1.1.1.1.(1) Application of NBC to Buildings.
Existing Building
It is permitted to apply Part 10 of the NBC as provided for in Article 1.3.3.1. of Division A during the alteration, maintenance, repair or change of occupancy of an existing building that has been built for not less than 5 years.
Building built in Nunavik
Considering that the construction of buildings in permafrost differs from the construction practices described in the NBC, it is recommended to refer to the document Housing Construction in Nunavik – Guide to Good Practices, Second Edition (2018), published by the Société d'habitation du Québec for that type of construction and available at www.habitation.gouv.qc.ca.
A-1.2.1.1.(1)(a) Code Compliance via Acceptable Solutions. If a building design (e.g. material, component, assembly or system) can be shown to meet all provisions of the applicable acceptable solutions
in Division B (e.g. it complies with the applicable provisions of a referenced standard), it is deemed to have satisfied the objectives and functional statements linked to those provisions and thus to have complied with that part of the Code. In fact, if it can be determined that a design meets all the applicable acceptable solutions in Division B, there is no need to consult the objectives and functional statements in Division A to determine its compliance.
A-1.2.1.1.(1)(b) Code Compliance via Alternative Solutions. Where a design differs from the acceptable solutions in Division B, then it should be treated as an “alternative solution” and be approved by the Régie on the conditions it sets pursuant to section 127 of the Building Act or, in the case of buildings or facilities over which the Régie does not have jurisdiction, by the authority having jurisdiction. A proponent of an alternative solution must demonstrate that the alternative solution addresses the same issues as the applicable acceptable solutions in Division B and their attributed objectives and functional statements. However, because the objectives and functional statements are entirely qualitative, demonstrating compliance with them in isolation is not possible. Therefore, Clause 1.2.1.1.(1)(b) identifies the principle that Division B establishes the quantitative performance targets that alternative solutions must meet. In many cases, these targets are not defined very precisely by the acceptable solutions—certainly far less precisely than would be the case with
a true performance code, which would have quantitative performance targets and prescribed methods of performance measurement for all aspects of building performance. Nevertheless, Clause 1.2.1.1.(1)(b) makes it clear that an effort must be made to demonstrate that an alternative solution will perform as well as a design that would satisfy the applicable acceptable solutions in Division B—not “well enough” but “as well as.”
In this sense, it is Division B that defines the boundaries between acceptable risks and the “unacceptable” risks referred to in the statements of the Code’s objectives, i.e. the risk remaining once the applicable acceptable solutions in Division B have been implemented represents the residual level of risk deemed to be acceptable by the broad base of Canadians who have taken part in the consensus process used to develop the Code.
These Notes are included for explanatory purposes only and do not form part of the requirements. The number that introduces each Note corresponds to the applicable requirement in this Part.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division A 1-17
  © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-1.3.3.1.(3) Division A
Level of Performance
Where Division B offers a choice between several possible designs, it is likely that these designs may
not all provide exactly the same level of performance. Among a number of possible designs satisfying acceptable solutions in Division B, the design providing the lowest level of performance should generally be considered to establish the minimum acceptable level of performance to be used in evaluating alternative solutions for compliance with the Code.
Sometimes a single design will be used as an alternative solution to several sets of acceptable solutions
in Division B. In this case, the level of performance required of the alternative solution should be at least equivalent to the overall level of performance established by all the applicable sets of acceptable solutions taken as a whole.
Each provision in Division B has been analyzed to determine what it is intended to achieve. The resultant intent statements clarify what undesirable results each provision seeks to preclude. These statements
are not a legal component of the Code, but are advisory in nature, and can help Code users establish performance targets for alternative solutions. They are published as part of the online Code subscriptions and as a separate electronic document entitled “Supplement to the NBC 2015: Intent Statements,” which is available on NRC’s Web site.
Areas of Performance
A subset of the acceptable solutions in Division B may establish criteria for particular types of designs (e.g. certain types of materials, components, assemblies, or systems). Often such subsets of acceptable solutions are all attributed to the same objective: Fire Safety for example. In some cases, the designs that are normally used to satisfy this subset of acceptable solutions might also provide some benefits that could be related
to some other objective: Fire Protection of the Building for example. However, if none of the applicable acceptable solutions are linked to Objective OP1, Fire Protection of the Building, it is not necessary that alternative solutions proposed to replace these acceptable solutions provide a similar benefit related to Fire Protection of the Building. In other words, the acceptable solutions in Division B establish acceptable levels of performance for compliance with the Code only in those areas defined by the objectives and functional statements attributed to the acceptable solutions.
Applicable Acceptable Solutions
In demonstrating that an alternative solution will perform as well as a design that would satisfy the applicable acceptable solutions in Division B, its evaluation should not be limited to comparison with the acceptable solutions to which an alternative is proposed. It is possible that acceptable solutions elsewhere in the Code also apply. The proposed alternative solution may be shown to perform as well as the most apparent acceptable solution which it is replacing but may not perform as well as other relevant acceptable solutions. For example, an innovative sheathing material may perform adequately as sheathing in a wall system that is braced by other means but may not perform adequately as sheathing in a wall system where the sheathing must provide the structural bracing. All applicable acceptable solutions should be taken into consideration in demonstrating the compliance of an alternative solution.
A-1.3.3.1.(3) Application of Part 11. Part 11 applies to the construction of new buildings having a building area not more than 600 m2, a building height not more than 3 storeys and housing dwelling units only.
Part 11 also applies to the addition work of existing buildings to the extent where the building area, after the addition work, is not more than 600 m2, the building height is not more than 3 storeys and the building houses dwelling units only.
Part 11 does not apply to the installation of new ventilation appliances in existing buildings or to the replacement of openings. Nor does it apply to the renovation of existing buildings. However, addition work representing 50% or more of the initial building area must meet the ventilation requirements for the additional portion only.
A parking garage for more than 4 cars does not have to meet the ventilation requirements of Part 11 even if the parking garage serves dwelling units of a building having a building area not more than 600 m2 and the number of storeys in building height is not more than 3 storeys. The parking garage must meet the ventilation requirements of Part 6.
1-18 Division A National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division A A-1.4.1.2.(1)
A-1.3.3.4.(1) Buildings Divided by Firewalls. This concept relates to the requirements in Subsection 3.2.2. of the NBC for determining dimensions only. For the other requirements, the designer determines whether a building divided by a firewall or 2 separate buildings as defined in Article 1.4.1.2. are to be built. Where the designer designs 2 separate buildings, each building must conform to all the requirements in the NBC.
A-1.3.3.4.(2) Buildings on Sloping Sites. Application of the definition of grade to stepped buildings on sloping sites often results in such buildings being designated as being greater than 3 storeys in building height even though there may be only 2 or 3 storeys at any one location. Figure A-1.3.3.4.(2) below illustrates this application compared to a similar building on a flat site.
Figure A-1.3.3.4.(2)
Application of the definition of grade
According to that Sentence, the building can be considered as being 3 storeys in building height instead of 6 storeys in building height. Both Building A and B are comparable with regard to fire safety and egress.
This relaxation applies to the determination of building height only. All other requirements continue to apply as appropriate.
A-1.4.1.2.(1) Defined Terms.
Alteration
An alteration does not include the types of work such as work required to bring the building into conformance with the regulations in force and the maintenance and repairs that do not affect the characteristics and functions of the elements involved. It does, however, include the following types of intervention:
(1) achangeofoccupancywithoutmodification,includingachangeinthesameGrouporDivision.
(2) achangesuchasanaddition,restoration,rehabilitation,renovationorretrofittingrelatedinparticular
to
(a) an increase in building height, (b) an increase in building area, (c) an increase in floor area,
(d) the creation of an interconnected floor space,
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division A 1-19
    “grade” for each stepped portion
                Building A
Building B
1 h fire separation at each stepped portion
“grade” for entire building
EC00907A
     © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-1.4.1.2.(1) Division A
1-20
Division A Amended Page National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
(e) theinstallationofabarrier-freeaccesstoabuildingorabarrier-freepathoftravelinthebuilding, (f) a modification of the provisions for firefighting, or
(g) amodificationoradditionaffectingthesafetyandhealthconditionsofabuildingorpartofa building.
Ambulatory Clinic Occupancy
The occupancies covered are care units where surgical or medical procedures are performed and may result in limitations making it impossible for a person to move or direct himself or herself unassisted in case of evacuation. Such procedures include a local or general anesthesia, administration of a sedative through a catheter or by other means, or treatment that requires a special procedure to terminate it. Dialysis, medical examinations and medical imaging may take place in ambulatory clinic occupancies. Any pre-existing conditions a person who enters a building may have do not affect the building’s designation as an ambulatory clinic occupancy.
Occupancies covered by this definition are variously called • day clinics,
• outpatient clinics,
• day surgery clinics,
• ambulatory surgery clinics,
• kidney dialysis clinics,
• oncology clinics,
• specialized medical centres (SMCs) (surgery).
To be eligible under the provisions relating to ambulatory clinic occupancies, an occupancy must not offer accommodation. If it does, it is subject to the requirements applicable to a treatment occupancy classified as Group B, Division 2.
ASTC and STC
The higher the ASTC or STC rating, the more the assembly or the system of assemblies protects occupants from noise in adjacent spaces.
These ratings, which are determined in accordance with ASTM E 413, “Classification for Rating Sound Insulation,” roughly describe the noise reduction provided by the separating floor or wall, or in the case of the ASTC rating, by the system of separating and adjoining walls and floors.
Care
Personal assistance services may be required for some residents. Assistance services are intended to compensate for a temporary or permanent disability in order to provide for personal hygiene, feeding, grooming, the use of personal property, the movement or rehabilitation of a person, and services to supervise medication or manage a crisis, emergency or building evacuation situation.
In a private seniors’ residence, assistance services include • personal assistance services such as
• feeding,dailypersonalhygiene,dressingandbathingassistanceservices, • thecareservicesinvolvedinassistancewithactivitiesofdailyliving.
Some services provided by a care facility are not care, including
• domestic help services such as
• housekeeping services in rooms or apartments,
• laundry services for clothing and bedding,
• recreation services such as
• organizedrecreationorentertainmentservicestopromotesocialization,inparticularintheform of physical, mental, social or creative activities,
• mealservicessuchasthesupply,onadailybasis,ofoneormoremeals,
• securityservicessuchasthefull-timepresenceinaresidenceofastaffmemberprovidingsupervision
or the supply to residents of a call-for-help system.
Care Occupancy
Support services rendered by or through care facility management refer to care provided by the organization that is responsible for the care for a period exceeding 24 consecutive hours. They do not refer
   © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division A A-1.4.1.2.(1)
to care arranged directly by residents with outside agencies. They do not include services provided to a family member.
In the context of care occupancies, these services may include a daily assessment of the resident’s functioning, awareness of their whereabouts, the making of appointments for residents and reminding them of those appointments, the ability and readiness to intervene if a crisis or emergency arises for
a resident, supervision in areas of nutrition or medication, provision of transient medical services, and assistance in case of emergency or building evacuation. Services may also include activities of daily living such as bathing, dressing, feeding, and assistance in the use of washroom facilities, etc. No actual treatment is provided by or through care facility management.
Care occupancies offering lodging in rooms include nursing homes, rehabilitation centres, palliative care facilities, convalescent homes, birthing centres and private seniors’ residences.
Care occupancies offering lodging in dwellings include private seniors’ residences where services or care may be provided.
Care occupancies do not include residential and long-term care centres (CHSLDs) within the meaning of the Act respecting health services and social services (chapter S-4.2) or any other occupancy with a similar use.
Dangerous Goods
In previous editions of the NBC, the terminology used to identify dangerous goods came from “Transportation of Dangerous Goods Regulations (TDGR).” The TDGR apply solely to the adequate identification of hazards related to dangerous goods in the contexts of transportation and emergency response.
Dangerous goods in the workplace are identified in accordance with the “Workplace Hazardous Materials Information System (WHMIS),” established in accordance with the “Hazardous Products Act.” The WHMIS identification system is specifically designed with the users of the product in mind.
This edition of the NBC identifies dangerous goods as products regulated by the TDGR or classified under the WHMIS. In order to harmonize these two nomenclatures for dangerous goods, class descriptors were developed taking into consideration both the TDGR and WHMIS classification systems. The NBC 2015 nomenclature uses a descriptive approach to classifying dangerous goods, which is similar to the one used by the Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labelling of Chemicals (GHS) developed by the United Nations (UN). Canada has actively participated in the development of the GHS and has committed to its implementation through the TDGR and WHMIS regulations.
The NBC 2015 nomenclature takes a common sense approach that corresponds more closely to how people refer to dangerous goods on a daily basis, blending TDGR and WHMIS terminology without using nondescript numbers and letters as previously found in the NBC, TDGR and WHMIS.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division A 1-21
  © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-1.4.1.2.(1)
Division A
UN
1
2 2.1 2.2 2.2 (5.1) 2.3
3 4.1
4.2
4.3
5.1 5.2 6.1 6.2 7 8
9 —
TDGR
Explosives
Gases
Flammable gases Non-flammable, non-toxic gases
WHMIS
Explosives
Gases under pressure
Flammable gases; Flammable aerosols Gases under pressure
Oxidizing gases
— Flammable liquids
Flammable solids
Pyrophoric liquids; pyrophoric solids
Substances and mixtures which, in contact with water, emit flammable gases
Oxidizing liquids; oxidizing solids
Organic peroxides
(1)
(1)
Not covered by GHS (2)
(2)
NBC 2015
Explosives
Compressed gases
Flammable gases; Flammable aerosols Non-flammable, non-toxic gases Oxidizing gases
Toxic gases
Flammable liquids
Flammable solids
Pyrophoric materials
Water-reactive substances
Oxidizers
Organic peroxides Toxic substances Infectious materials Radioactive materials Corrosives
Miscellaneous dangerous goods Dangerously reactive materials
—
Substances liable to spontaneous combustion
Water-reactive substances
Oxidizing substances
Organic peroxides
Toxic substances
Infectious substances
Radioactive materials
Corrosives
Miscellaneous products, substances, or organisms
Toxic gases
Flammable liquids
Flammable solids
Notes to Table A-1.4.1.2.(1):
Table A-1.4.1.2.(1)
UN, TDGR, WHMIS and NBC Class Descriptors for Dangerous Goods
—
Previously Class F
(1) The WHMIS has various descriptors for this Class of products based on their toxicity.
(2) The WHMIS has various descriptors for this Class of products based on the nature of the danger presented by the product.
Exit
Exits include doors or doorways leading directly into an exit stair or directly to the outside. In the case of an exit leading to a separate building, exits also include vestibules, walkways, bridges or balconies.
Farm Building
Farm buildings as defined in Article 1.4.1.2. include, but are not limited to, produce storage and packing facilities, livestock and poultry housing, milking centres, manure storage facilities, grain bins, silos, feed preparation centres, farm workshops, greenhouses, farm retail centres, and horse riding, exercise and training facilities. Farm buildings may be classed as low or high human occupancy, depending on the occupant load.
Examples of farm buildings likely to be classed as low human occupancy as defined in Article 1.2.1.2. of the National Farm Building Code of Canada 1995. are livestock and poultry housing, manure and machinery storage facilities and horse exercise and training facilities where no bleachers or viewing area are provided.
Examples of farm buildings that would be classed as other than low human occupancy include farm retail centres for feeds, horticultural and livestock produce, auction barns and show areas where bleachers or other public facilities are provided. Farm work centres where the number of workers frequently exceeds the limit for low human occupancy will also be in this category.
It is possible to have areas of both high and low human occupancy in the same building provided that the structural safety and fire separation requirements for high human occupancy are met in the part thus designated.
1-22
Division A National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
    © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division A A-1.4.1.2.(1)
Fire Separation
It is generally understood that the term “fire” refers to all products of combustion, including heat and smoke. Although a fire separation is not always required to have a fire-resistance rating, it should act as a barrier to the spread of smoke and fire until some type of response is initiated. If the fire-resistance rating of a fire separation is permitted to be waived on the basis of the presence of an automatic sprinkler system, it is nonetheless the intent of the Code that the fire separation be constructed so that it will remain in place and act as a barrier against the spread of smoke until the sprinklers have actuated.
Flight
Figure A-1.4.1.2.(1)-A Flight
Mechanically Vented
The definition of this term is intended to include all types of appliances and venting systems that rely entirely on fans to evacuate the products of combustion. Systems variously referred to as “forced draft,” “power vented” and “induced draft” in standards and industry terminology may be covered by this definition. The key characteristic of such systems is that they are more resistant to depressurization-induced spillage of combustion products into the building in which they are housed because the combustion venting system downstream of the fan is “sealed,” i.e. includes no draft hood or draft control device.
Post-disaster Building
There may be circumstances where the authority having jurisdiction would choose to exempt certain types of buildings or parts thereof from being designated as post-disaster buildings in order to permit them to be governed by Part 9 rather than by the rest of the Code. Such is the case in the following examples: an ambulance that is stored at a volunteer’s residence or a police station that is housed in a small shopping mall. The circumstances where such exemptions are permitted are intentionally limited by the definition of post-disaster building.
Public Corridor
A covered mall is considered to be a public corridor and, as such, is subject to the same requirements as a public corridor.
Rim Joist
In the field, rim joists may also be referred to as rim boards, headers or header joists.
Secondary Suite
A secondary suite is a self-contained dwelling unit of a prescribed maximum total floor area that is part of a building containing not more than two dwelling units (including the secondary suite) and any common
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division A 1-23
    Stair with one flight
flight
Stair with two flights
   landing
landing
EG01395A
landing
landing
landing
flight
flight
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-1.4.1.2.(1) Division A
1-24
Division A National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
spaces such as common storage, common service rooms, common laundry facilities or common areas used for egress. Secondary suites are typically created within an existing single dwelling unit—commonly called a “house”—either constructed as an addition to an existing house or incorporated during the construction of a new house. A secondary suite may have more than one storey and may be on the same level as the principal dwelling unit of the house or be above or below it.
Examples of buildings where secondary suites are permitted include individual detached houses, or where the secondary suite is located in a portion of a building, semi-detached houses (half of a double) and freehold row houses.
Where a building has multiple occupancies, the secondary suite can only be created in a portion of the building that is of residential occupancy. Apartment buildings have more than two dwelling units and are therefore not permitted to have secondary suites.
Neither dwelling unit in a house can be strata-titled or otherwise subdivided from the remainder of the house under provincial or territorial legislation. This means that both dwelling units are registered under the same title.
Secondary suites are also referred to as “accessory suites” or “secondary units” by various jurisdictions.
Service Room
Typical examples of service rooms include boiler rooms, furnace rooms, incinerator rooms, garbage handling rooms and rooms to accommodate air-conditioning or heating appliances, pumps, compressors and electrical equipment. Rooms such as elevator machine rooms and common laundry rooms are not considered to be service rooms.
Solid Masonry Units
The net solid area of a masonry unit is calculated by determining the gross area of the bed face of the unit (L x T) and subtracting the cumulative areas of the hollow portions. As long as the total area of the hollow portions is 25% or less of the gross area, the unit is considered to be a solid masonry unit.
Figure A-1.4.1.2.(1)-B
Net solid area of masonry unit
Storage Garage
Entrances at which vehicles stop for a short time beneath an unenclosed canopy to pick up and drop off passengers are not considered as storage garages.
      gross area = length × thickness net solid area = shaded area
T
L
EG01325A
 bed face
face
end
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division A A-1.5.1.1.(1)
Suite
The term “suite” applies to both rental and ownership tenure. In a condominium arrangement, for example, dwelling units are considered separate suites. In order to be of complementary use, a series of rooms that constitute a suite must be in reasonably close proximity to each other and have access to each other either directly by means of a common doorway or indirectly by a corridor, vestibule or other similar arrangement.
The term “suite” does not apply to rooms such as service rooms, common laundry rooms and common recreational rooms that are not leased or under a separate tenure in the context of the NBC. Similarly, the term “suite” is not normally applied in the context of buildings such as schools and hospitals, since the entire building is under a single tenure. However, a room that is individually rented is considered a suite. A compartment or warehousing unit in a mini-warehouse is a suite.
For certain requirements in the NBC, the expression “room or suite” is used (e.g., travel distance). This means that the requirement applies within the rooms of suites as well as to the suite itself and to rooms that may be located outside the suite. In other places the expression “suite, and rooms not located within a suite” is used (e.g., for the installation of smoke and heat detectors). This means that the requirement applies to individual suites as defined, but not to each room within the suite. The rooms “not within a suite” would include common laundry rooms, common recreational rooms and service rooms, which are not considered as tenant-occupied space.
A room occupied by a patient or resident in a care or treatment occupancy is not a suite within the meaning of the NBC. A room is a single sleeping room that may include sanitary facilities.
Total Thermal Resistance
The method for calculating the total thermal resistance of a component of the building envelope having a wood frame, for example, consists in determining the thermal resistance of the various materials as part of the component along a line crossing the insulated part and in adding the values obtained. The interior and exterior surface air film of the envelope are part of the building assembly.
Treatment
The ability to evacuate unassisted implies that a person is capable of recognizing and responding to an emergency given their physical, cognitive and behavioural abilities, and able to move to a safe location without the assistance of another person. For example, such persons must be able to arise and walk, or transfer from a bed or chair to a means of mobility, and leave the building or move to a safe location on their own.
Treatment Occupancy
“Treatments” may include such things as surgery, intensive care, and emergency medical intervention. Treatment services differ from the services provided by care occupancies like personal care assistance or the administration of medication, and from those provided by business and personal services occupancies
like dentistry.
Treatment occupancies include residential and long-term care centres (CHSLDs) within the meaning of the Act respecting health services and social services (chapter S-4.2) and any other occupancy with a similar use.
A-1.5.1.1.(1) Application of Referenced Documents. Documents referenced in the NBC may contain provisions covering a wide range of issues, including issues that are unrelated to the objectives and functional statements stated in Parts 2 and 3 of Division A respectively; e.g. aesthetic issues such as colour-fastness or uniformity. Sentence 1.5.1.1.(1) is intended to make it clear that, whereas referencing a document in the NBC generally has the effect of making the provisions of that document part of the Code, provisions that are unrelated to buildings or to the objectives and functional statements attributed to the provisions in Division B where the document is referenced are excluded.
Furthermore, many documents referenced in the NBC contain references to other documents, which may also, in turn, refer to other documents. These secondary and tertiary referenced documents may contain provisions that are unrelated to buildings or to the objectives and functional statements of the NBC: such provisions—no matter how far down the chain of references they occur—are not included in the intent of Sentence 1.5.1.1.(1).
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division A 1-25
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022
1-26 Division A National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1

 Division A
Part 2 Objectives
2.1. Application
2.1.1. Application ........................................ 2-1
2.2. Objectives
2.2.1. Objectives ......................................... 2-1
Notes to Part 2 .................. 2-7
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1

 Division A
Part 2 Objectives
Section 2.1. Application
2.1.1. 2.1.1.1.
2.1.1.2.
Application Application
1) This Part applies to all buildings covered in this Code. (See Article 1.1.1.1.) Application of Objectives
(See Note A-2.2.1.1.(1).)
1) Except as provided in Sentences (2) to (6), the objectives described in this Part apply
a) to all buildings covered in this Code (see Article 1.1.1.1.), and
b) only to the extent that they relate to compliance with this Code as required
in Article 1.2.1.1.
2) Objective OS4, Resistance to Unwanted Entry, applies only to dwelling units in
buildings covered in Part 9 of Division B. (See Article 1.3.3.3.)
3) Objective OH3, Noise Protection, applies only to dwelling units.
4) Objective OH5, Hazardous Substances Containment, applies only to the extent
defined in
a) the National Plumbing Code of Canada 2015, and
b) the National Fire Code of Canada 2015.
5) Objective OA, Accessibility (including Objectives OA1, Barrier-Free Path of Travel, and OA2, Barrier-Free Facilities), does not apply to
a) detached houses, semi-detached houses, houses with a secondary suite, duplexes, triplexes, townhouses and row houses (see Note A-1.4.1.2.(1), Secondary Suite),
b) buildings of Group F, Division 1 major occupancy, and
c) buildings that are not intended to be occupied on a daily or full-time basis,
including automatic telephone exchanges, pumphouses and substations.
6) Objective OE, Environment, as well as Objectives OE1, Resources, OE1.1, Excessive Use of Energy, and OE1.2, Excessive Use of Water, apply only to
a) buildings covered by Part 11 of Division B,
b) the Sentences included in that Part, and
c) air conditioning or drinking water cooling systems.
Section 2.2. Objectives
2.2.1. Objectives 2.2.1.1. Objectives
1) The objectives of this Code are as follows (see Note A-2.2.1.1.(1)): National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division A 2-1
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 2.2.1.1.
Division A
2-2 Division A
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
OS
Safety
An objective of this Code is to limit the probability that, as a result of the design, construction or demolition of the building, a person in or adjacent to the building will be exposed to an unacceptable risk of injury.
OS1 Fire Safety
An objective of this Code is to limit the probability that, as a result of the design or construction of the building, a person in or adjacent to the building will be exposed to an unacceptable risk of injury due to fire. The risks of injury due to fire addressed in this Code are those caused by—
OS1.1 –
OS1.2 –
OS1.3 –
OS1.4 –
OS1.5 –
fire or explosion occurring
fire or explosion impacting areas beyond its point of origin
collapse of physical elements due to a fire or explosion
fire safety systems failing to function as expected persons being delayed in or impeded from moving to a safe place during a fire emergency
OS2 Structural Safety
An objective of this Code is to limit the probability that, as a result of the design or construction of the building, a person in or adjacent to the building will be exposed to an unacceptable risk of injury due to structural failure. The risks of injury due to structural failure addressed in this Code are those caused by—
OS2.1 –
OS2.2 –
OS2.3 –
OS2.4 –
OS2.5 –
OS2.6 –
loads bearing on the building elements that exceed their loadbearing capacity
loads bearing on the building that exceed the loadbearing properties of the supporting medium damage to or deterioration of building elements vibration or deflection of building elements instability of the building or part thereof
collapse of the excavation
OS3 Safety in Use
An objective of this Code is to limit the probability that, as a result of the design or construction of the building, a person in or adjacent to the building will be exposed to an unacceptable risk of injury due to hazards. The risks of injury due to hazards addressed in this Code are those caused by—
OS3.1 –
OS3.2 –
OS3.3 –
OS3.4 –
OS3.5 –
OS3.6 –
OS3.7 –
tripping, slipping, falling, contact, drowning or collision
contact with hot surfaces or substances
contact with energized equipment
exposure to hazardous substances
exposure to high levels of sound from fire alarm systems
persons becoming trapped in confined spaces persons being delayed in or impeded from moving to a safe place during an emergency (see Note A-2.2.1.1.(1))
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division A
2.2.1.1.
OS4
Resistance to Unwanted Entry
An objective of this Code is to limit the probability that, as a result of the design or construction of the building, a person in the building will be exposed to an unacceptable risk of injury due to the building’s low level of resistance to unwanted entry (see Sentence 2.1.1.2.(2) for application limitation). The risks of injury due to unwanted entry addressed in this Code are those caused by—
OS4.1 – intruders being able to force their way through locked doors or windows
OS4.2 – occupants being unable to identify potential intruders as such
Safety at Construction and Demolition Sites
An objective of this Code is to limit the probability that, as a result of the construction or demolition of the building, the public adjacent to a construction or demolition site will be exposed to an unacceptable risk of injury due to hazards. The risks of injury due to construction and demolition hazards addressed in this Code are those caused by—
OS5
OH Health
OS5.1 –
OS5.2 –
OS5.3 –
OS5.4 –
OS5.5 –
OS5.6 –
OS5.7 –
OS5.8 –
OS5.9 –
objects projected onto public ways vehicular accidents on public ways damage to or obstruction of public ways water accumulated in excavations
entry into the site
exposure to hazardous substances and activities loads bearing on a covered way that exceed its loadbearing capacity
collapse of the excavation
persons being delayed in or impeded from moving to a safe place during an emergency (see Note A-2.2.1.1.(1))
An objective of this Code is to limit the probability that, as a result of the design or construction of the building, a person will be exposed to an unacceptable risk of illness.
OH1 Indoor Conditions
An objective of this Code is to limit the probability that, as a result of the design or construction of the building, a person in the building will be exposed to an unacceptable risk of illness due to indoor conditions. The risks of illness due to indoor conditions addressed in this Code are those caused by—
OH1.1 – OH1.2 – OH1.3 –
OH2 Sanitation
inadequate indoor air quality inadequate thermal comfort contact with moisture
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division A 2-3
An objective of this Code is to limit the probability that, as a result of the design or construction of the building, a person in the building will be exposed to an unacceptable risk of illness due
to unsanitary conditions. The risks of illness due to unsanitary conditions addressed in this Code are those caused by—
OH2.1 –
OH2.2 –
OH2.3 –
OH2.4 –
OH2.5 –
exposure to human or domestic waste consumption of contaminated water inadequate facilities for personal hygiene contact with contaminated surfaces contact with vermin and insects
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 2.2.1.1.
Division A
2-4 Division A
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
OA
OH3 Noise Protection
An objective of this Code is to limit the probability that, as a result of the design or construction of the building, a person in the building will be exposed to an unacceptable risk of illness due to high levels of sound originating in adjacent spaces in the building (see Sentence 2.1.1.2.(3) for application limitation). The risks of illness due to high levels of sound addressed in this Code are those caused by—
OH3.1 – exposure to airborne sound transmitted through assemblies separating dwelling units from adjacent spaces in the building
OH4 Vibration and Deflection Limitation
An objective of this Code is to limit the probability that, as a result of the design or construction of the building, a person in the building will be exposed to an unacceptable risk of illness due to high levels of vibration or deflection of building elements.
OH5 Hazardous Substances Containment
An objective of this Code is to limit the probability that, as a result of the design or construction of the building, the public will be exposed to an unacceptable risk of illness due to the release of hazardous substances from the building (see Sentence 2.1.1.2.(4) for application limitation).
Accessibility
An objective of this Code is to limit the probability that, as a result of the design or construction of the building, a person with a physical or sensory limitation will be unacceptably impeded from accessing or using the building or its facilities (see Sentence 2.1.1.2.(5) for application limitations).
OA1 Barrier-Free Path of Travel
An objective of this Code is to limit the probability that, as a result of the design or construction of the building, a person with a physical or sensory limitation will be unacceptably impeded from accessing the building or circulating within it (see Sentence 2.1.1.2.(5) for application limitations).
OA2 Barrier-Free Facilities
An objective of this Code is to limit the probability that, as a result of the design or construction of the building, a person with a physical or sensory limitation will be unacceptably impeded from using the building’s facilities (see Sentence 2.1.1.2.(5) for application limitations).
Fire and Structural Protection of Buildings
An objective of this Code is to limit the probability that, as a result of the design, construction or demolition of the building, the building or adjacent buildings will be exposed to an unacceptable risk of damage due to fire or structural insufficiency, or the building or part thereof will be exposed to an unacceptable risk of loss of use also due to structural insufficiency.
OP
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division A
2.2.1.1.
OE
OP1 Fire Protection of the Building
An objective of this Code is to limit the probability that, as a result of its design or construction, the building will be exposed to an unacceptable risk of damage due to fire. The risks of damage due to fire addressed in this Code are those caused by—
OP1.1 – OP1.2 –
OP1.3 – OP1.4 –
fire or explosion occurring
fire or explosion impacting areas beyond its point of origin
collapse of physical elements due to a fire or explosion
fire safety systems failing to function as expected
OP2 Structural Sufficiency of the Building
An objective of this Code is to limit the probability that, as a result of its design or construction, the building or part thereof will be exposed to an unacceptable risk of damage or loss of use due to structural failure or lack of structural serviceability. The risks of damage and of loss of use due to structural failure or lack of structural serviceability addressed in this Code are those caused by—
OP2.1 –
OP2.2 –
OP2.3 –
OP2.4 –
OP2.5 –
OP2.6 –
loads bearing on the building elements that exceed their loadbearing capacity
loads bearing on the building that exceed the loadbearing properties of the supporting medium damage to or deterioration of building elements vibration or deflection of building elements instability of the building or part thereof
instability or movement of the supporting medium
OP3 Protection of Adjacent Buildings from Fire
An objective of this Code is to limit the probability that, as a result of the design or construction of the building, adjacent buildings will be exposed to an unacceptable risk of damage due to fire. The risks of damage to adjacent buildings due to fire addressed in this Code are those caused by—
OP3.1 – fire or explosion impacting areas beyond the building of origin
OP4 Protection of Adjacent Buildings from Structural Damage
An objective of this Code is to limit the probability that, as a result of the design, construction or demolition of the building, adjacent buildings will be exposed to an unacceptable risk of structural damage. The risks of structural damage to adjacent buildings addressed in this Code are those caused by—
OP4.1 – OP4.2 –
OP4.3 – OP4.4 –
Environment
settlement of the medium supporting adjacent
buildings
collapse of the building or portion thereof onto adjacent buildings
impact of the building on adjacent buildings collapse of the excavation
An objective of this Code is to limit the probability that, as a result of the design or construction of the building, the environment will be affected in an unacceptable manner.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division A 2-5
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 2.2.1.1.
Division A
2-6 Division A
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
OE1 Resources
An objective of this Code is to limit the probability that, as a result of the design or construction of the building, resources will be used in a manner that will have an unacceptable effect on the environment. The risks of unacceptable effect on the environment due to use of resources addressed in this Code are those caused by –
OE1.1 – excessive use of energy
OE1.2 – excessive use of water
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division A
Notes to Part 2 Objectives
A-2.2.1.1.(1) Objectives.
Listing of objectives
Any gaps in the numbering sequence of the objectives are due to the fact that there is a master list of objectives covering the four principal National Code Documents—the National Building Code, the National Fire Code, the National Plumbing Code and the National Energy Code for Buildings—but not all objectives are pertinent to all Codes.
The building
Where the term “the building” is used in the wording of the objectives, it refers to the building for which compliance with the National Building Code is being assessed.
Emergency
The term “emergency”—in the context of safety in buildings—is often equated to the term “fire emergency;” however, the wording of objectives OS3.7 and OS5.9 makes it clear that the Code addresses any type of emergency that would require the rapid evacuation of the building, such as a bomb threat or the presence of intruders.
These Notes are included for explanatory purposes only and do not form part of the requirements. The number that introduces each Note corresponds to the applicable requirement in this Part.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division A 2-7
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022
2-8 Division A National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1

 Division A
Part 3
Functional Statements
3.1. Application
3.1.1. Application ........................................ 3-1
3.2. Functional Statements
3.2.1. Functional Statements ..................... 3-1
Notes to Part 3 .................. 3-5
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1

 Division A
Part 3
Functional Statements
Section 3.1. Application
3.1.1. 3.1.1.1.
3.1.1.2.
Application Application
1) This Part applies to all buildings covered in this Code. (See Article 1.1.1.1.) Application of Functional Statements
1) Except as provided in Sentences (2) to (4), the functional statements described in this Part apply
a) to all buildings covered in this Code (see Article 1.1.1.1.), and
b) only to the extent that they relate to compliance with this Code as required
in Article 1.2.1.1.
2) Functional Statement F56 applies only to dwelling units.
3) Functional Statements F73 and F74 do not apply to
a) detached houses, semi-detached houses, houses with a secondary suite,
duplexes, triplexes, townhouses and row houses (see Note A-1.4.1.2.(1),
Secondary Suite),
b) buildings of Group F, Division 1 major occupancy, and
c) buildings that are not intended to be occupied on a daily or full-time basis, including automatic telephone exchanges, pumphouses and substations.
4) Functional Statements F92, F98 and F130 apply only to
a) buildings covered by Part 11 of Division B,
b) the Sentences included in that Part, and
c) air conditioning or drinking water cooling systems.
Section 3.2. Functional Statements
3.2.1. Functional Statements 3.2.1.1. Functional Statements
1) The objectives of this Code are achieved by measures, such as those described in the acceptable solutions in Division B, that are intended to allow the building or its elements to perform the following functions (see Note A-3.2.1.1.(1)):
F01 To minimize the risk of accidental ignition.
F02 To limit the severity and effects of fire or explosions.
F03 To retard the effects of fire on areas beyond its point of origin.
F04 To retard failure or collapse due to the effects of fire.
F05 To retard the effects of fire on emergency egress facilities.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division A 3-1
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.2.1.1.
Division A
3-2 Division A
F06 To retard the effects of fire on facilities for notification, suppression and emergency response.
F10 To facilitate the timely movement of persons to a safe place in an emergency.
F11 To notify persons, in a timely manner, of the need to take action in an emergency.
F12 To facilitate emergency response.
F13 To notify emergency responders, in a timely manner, of the need
to take action in an emergency.
F20 To support and withstand expected loads and forces.
F21 To limit or accommodate dimensional change.
F22 To limit movement under expected loads and forces.
F23 To maintain equipment in place during structural movement.
F30 To minimize the risk of injury to persons as a result of tripping, slipping, falling, contact, drowning or collision.
F31 To minimize the risk of injury to persons as a result of contact with hot surfaces or substances.
F32 To minimize the risk of injury to persons as a result of contact with energized equipment.
F33 To limit the level of sound of a fire alarm system.
F34 To resist or discourage unwanted access or entry.
F35 To facilitate the identification of potential intruders.
F36 To minimize the risk that persons will be trapped in confined spaces.
F40 To limit the level of contaminants.
F41 To minimize the risk of generation of contaminants.
F42 To resist the entry of vermin and insects.
F43 To minimize the risk of release of hazardous substances.
F44 To limit the spread of hazardous substances beyond their point of release.
F46 To minimize the risk of contamination of potable water.
F50 To provide air suitable for breathing.
F51 To maintain appropriate air and surface temperatures.
F52 To maintain appropriate relative humidity.
F53 To maintain appropriate indoor/outdoor air pressure differences.
F54 To limit drafts.
F55 To resist the transfer of air through environmental separators.
F56 To limit the transmission of airborne sound into a dwelling unit from spaces elsewhere in the building (see Sentence 3.1.1.2.(2) for application limitation).
F60 To control the accumulation and pressure of water on and in the ground.
F61 To resist the ingress of precipitation, water or moisture from the exterior or from the ground.
F62 To facilitate the dissipation of water and moisture from the building.
F63 To limit moisture condensation.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division A
3.2.1.1.
F70 To provide potable water.
F71 To provide facilities for personal hygiene.
F72 To provide facilities for the sanitary disposal of human and domestic wastes.
F73 To facilitate access to and circulation in the building and its facilities by persons with physical or sensory limitations (see Sentence 3.1.1.2.(3) for application limitation).
F74 To facilitate the use of the building’s facilities by persons with physical or sensory limitations (see Sentence 3.1.1.2.(3) for application limitation).
F80 To resist deterioration resulting from expected service conditions.
F81 To minimize the risk of malfunction, interference, damage,
tampering, lack of use or misuse.
F82 To minimize the risk of inadequate performance due to improper maintenance or lack of maintenance.
F90 To limit the amount of uncontrolled air leakage through the building envelope.
F91 To limit the amount of uncontrolled air leakage through system components.
F92 To limit the amount of uncontrolled thermal transfer through the building envelope.
F93 To limit the amount of uncontrolled thermal transfer through system components.
F95 To limit the unnecessary demand and/or consumption of energy for heating and cooling.
F96 To limit the unnecessary demand and/or consumption of energy for service water heating.
F98 To limit the inefficiency of equipment.
F99 To limit the inefficiency of systems.
F100 To limit the unnecessary rejection of reusable waste energy.
F130 To limit excessive water consumption.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division A 3-3
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022
3-4 Division A National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1

 Division A
Notes to Part 3 Functional Statements
A-3.2.1.1.(1) Listing of Functional Statements. The numbered functional statements are grouped according to functions that deal with closely related subjects. For example, the first group deals with fire risks, the second group deals with emergency egress and response, etc. There may be gaps in the numbering sequence for the following reasons:
• Eachgrouphasunusednumberswhichallowsforthepossiblefuturecreationofadditionalfunctional statements within any one group.
• ThereisamasterlistoffunctionalstatementscoveringthefourprincipalNationalCodeDocuments—the National Building Code, the National Fire Code, the National Plumbing Code and the National Energy Code for Buildings—but not all functional statements are pertinent to all Codes.
These Notes are included for explanatory purposes only and do not form part of the requirements. The number that introduces each Note corresponds to the applicable requirement in this Part.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division A 3-5
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022
3-6 Division A National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1

 Division B Acceptable Solutions
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
Part 1 General
1.1. General
1.1.1. Application ........................................ 1-1
1.1.2. Objectives and Functional
Statements ........................................ 1-1
1.1.3. Climatic and Seismic Data .............. 1-1
1.1.4. Fire Safety Plan ................................ 1-1
1.2. Terms and Abbreviations
1.2.1. Definitions of Words and Phrases .. 1-2
1.2.2. Symbols and Other Abbreviations .. 1-2
1.3. Referenced Documents and Organizations
1.3.1. Referenced Documents ................... 1-2
1.3.2. Organizations ................................. 1-25
Notes to Part 1 ................ 1-29
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1

 Division B
Part 1 General
Section 1.1. General
1.1.1. 1.1.1.1.
1.1.2. 1.1.2.1.
1.1.3. 1.1.3.1.
1.1.3.2.
1.1.4. 1.1.4.1.
Application Application
1) This Part applies to all buildings covered in this Code. (See Article 1.1.1.1. of Division A.)
Objectives and Functional Statements Attributions to Acceptable Solutions
1) For the purpose of compliance with this Code as required in
Clause 1.2.1.1.(1)(b) of Division A, the objectives and functional statements attributed to the acceptable solutions in Division B shall be the objectives and functional statements identified in Sections 3.10., 4.5., 5.10., 6.4., 7.2. and 9.37. (See Note A-1.1.2.1.(1).)
Climatic and Seismic Data Climatic and Seismic Values
1) The climatic and seismic values required for the design of buildings under this Code shall be in conformance with the values established by the authority having jurisdiction or, in the absence of such data, with Sentence (2) and the climatic and seismic values in Appendix C. (See Note A-1.1.3.1.(1).)
2) The outside winter design temperatures determined from Appendix C shall be those listed for the January 2.5% values. (See Note A-1.1.3.1.(2).)
Depth of Frost Penetration
1) Depth of frost penetration shall be established on the basis of local experience.
Fire Safety Plan Fire Safety Plan
1) Where a fire safety plan is required, it shall conform to Section 2.8. of Division B of the NFC.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 1-1
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 1.2.1.1. Division B
Section 1.2. Terms and Abbreviations
1.2.1. 1.2.1.1.
Definitions of Words and Phrases Non-defined Terms
1) Words and phrases used in Division B that are not included in the list of definitions in Article 1.4.1.2. of Division A shall have the meanings that are commonly assigned to them in the context in which they are used, taking into account the specialized use of terms by the various trades and professions to which the terminology applies.
2) Where objectives and functional statements are referred to in Division B, they shall be the objectives and functional statements described in Parts 2 and 3 of Division A.
3) Where acceptable solutions are referred to in Division B, they shall be the provisions stated in Parts 3 to 11.
4) Alternative solutions referred to in Division C are those referred to in Clause 1.2.1.1.(1)(b) of Division A.
Defined Terms
1) The words and terms in italics in Division B shall have the meanings assigned
to them in Article 1.4.1.2. of Division A.
Symbols and Other Abbreviations Symbols and Other Abbreviations
1) The symbols and other abbreviations in Division B shall have the meanings assigned to them in Article 1.4.2.1. of Division A and Article 1.3.2.1.
1.2.1.2.
1.2.2. 1.2.2.1.
Section 1.3. Referenced Documents and Organizations
1.3.1. Referenced Documents 1.3.1.1. Effective Date
1) Unless otherwise specified herein, the documents referenced in this Code shall include all amendments, revisions, reaffirmations, reapprovals, addenda and supplements effective to 30 June 2017.
1.3.1.2. Applicable Editions
1) Where documents are referenced in this Code, they shall be the editions
Issuing Agency
Document Number(2)
Title of Document(3)
Code Reference
A-5.9.3. A-5.9.3.
A-5.9.3.
AAMA 501-05 AAMA 501.1-05
AAMA 501.2-09
Test for Exterior Walls
1-2 Division B Amended Page
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
designated in Table 1.3.1.2.
Table 1.3.1.2.
Documents Referenced in the National Building Code of Canada 2015(1) Forming Part of Sentence 1.3.1.2.(1)
Water Penetration of Windows, Curtain Walls and Doors Using Dynamic Pressure
Quality Assurance and Diagnostic Water Leakage Field Check of Installed Storefronts, Curtain Walls, and Sloped Glazing Systems
   © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
1.3.1.2.
Issuing Agency
Document Number(2)
Table 1.3.1.2. (Continued)
Title of Document(3)
Recommended Static Test Method for Evaluating Curtain Wall and Storefront Systems Subjected to Seismic and Wind Induced Interstory Drifts
Thermal Cycling of Exterior Walls
Recommended Dynamic Test Method For Determining The Seismic Drift Causing Glass Fallout From A Wall System
Performance Rating of Air-to-Air Exchangers for Energy Recovery Ventilation Equipment
Performance Rating of Air-to-Air Exchangers for Energy Recovery Ventilation
North American Standard for Cold-Formed Steel Framing - Product Data
Power Operated Pedestrian Doors Particleboard
Minimum Design Loads for Buildings and Other Structures Design of Cold-Formed Stainless Steel Structural Members Wind Tunnel Testing for Buildings and Other Structures ASHRAE Handbook – Fundamentals
Minimizing the Risk of Legionellosis Associated with Building Water Systems
Ventilation for Acceptable Indoor Air Quality (except Addendum n) Ventilation for Acceptable Indoor Air Quality
Evaluation of Building Energy Analysis Computer Programs Safety Code for Elevators and Escalators
Wood Screws (Inch Series)
Zinc (Hot-Dip Galvanized) Coatings on Iron and Steel Products Zinc Coating (Hot-Dip) on Iron and Steel Hardware
Welded and Seamless Steel Pipe Piles
Low and Intermediate Tensile Strength Carbon Steel Plates
Zinc-Coated (Galvanized) Steel Poultry Fence Fabric (Hexagonal and Straight Line)
Steel Sheet, Zinc-Coated (Galvanized) or Zinc-Iron Alloy-Coated (Galvannealed) by the Hot-Dip Process
Code Reference
A-5.9.3.
A-5.9.3. A-5.9.3.3.(1)
A-4.1.8.18.(14) and (15) A-5.9.3.
6.3.1.8.(8)
6.3.1.8.(8)
9.24.1.2.(1)
A-3.8.3.6.(6) and (7)
9.23.15.2.(3) 9.29.9.1.(1) 9.30.2.2.(1)
A-4.1.8.18.(14) and (15) A-4.3.4.2.(1) 4.1.7.12.(1) A-9.32.3.11. 6.3.2.15.(4)
6.3.2.16.(3)
A-9.25.5.2.
6.3.1.1.(2) 6.3.2.2.(1)
A-11.2.2.1.(3)
3.2.6.7.(2) 3.5.2.1.(1) 3.5.2.1.(2) 3.5.2.1.(3) 3.5.2.1.(4) 3.5.4.1.(3) 3.5.4.2.(1) A-3.5.2.1.(1) Table 4.1.5.11. Table 4.1.8.18.
Table 5.9.1.1. 9.23.3.1.(3) A-9.23.3.1.(3)
Table 5.9.1.1. Table 9.20.16.1.
Table 5.9.1.1. Table 9.20.16.1.
4.2.3.8.(1) 4.2.3.8.(1)
Table 9.10.3.1.-B
Table 5.9.1.1. 9.3.3.2.(1)
AAMA 501.4-09
AAMA 501.5-07
AAMA 501.6-09
AHRI ANSI/AHRI 1060 (I-P)-2018
AHRI ANSI/AHRI 1061 (SI)-2018
AISI S201-12
ANSI ANSI/BHMA A156.10-2005 ANSI A208.1-2009
ASCE ASCE/SEI 7-10 ASCE ASCE/SEI 8-02 ASCE ASCE/SEI 49-12 ASHRAE 1997
ASHRAE Guideline 12-2000
ASHRAE ANSI/ASHRAE 62-2001 ASHRAE ANSI/ASHRAE 62.1-2004
ASHRAE ANSI/ASHRAE 140-2011 ASME/CSA ASME A17.1-2007/CSA B44-07
ASME B18.6.1-1981
ASTM A 123/A 123M-13 ASTM A 153/A 153M-09
ASTM A 252-10
ASTM A 283/A 283M-13 ASTM A 390-06
ASTM A 653/A 653M-13
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Amended Page Division B 1-3
               © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 1.3.1.2.
Division B
Issuing Agency
Document Number(2)
Table 1.3.1.2. (Continued)
Title of Document(3)
Steel Sheet, 55% Aluminum-Zinc Alloy-Coated by the Hot-Dip Process
Steel, Sheet, Cold-Rolled, Carbon, Structural, High-Strength Low-Alloy, High-Strength Low-Alloy with Improved Formability, Solution Hardened, and Bake Hardenable
Steel, Sheet and Strip, Hot-Rolled, Carbon, Structural, High-Strength Low-Alloy, High-Strength Low-Alloy with Improved Formability, and Ultra-High Strength
Clay Drain Tile and Perforated Clay Drain Tile
Fireclay and High-Alumina Refractory Brick Calcium Silicate Brick (Sand-Lime Brick)
Ceramic Glazed Structural Clay Facing Tile, Facing Brick, and Solid Masonry Units
Structural Clay Facing Tile
Air-Entraining Admixtures for Concrete
Hot-Surface Performance of High-Temperature Thermal Insulation
Concrete Drain Tile (Metric) Perforated Concrete Pipe (Metric)
Chemical Admixtures for Concrete Vermiculite Loose Fill Thermal Insulation
Mineral Fiber Blanket Thermal Insulation for Commercial and Industrial Applications
Mineral Fiber Block and Board Thermal Insulation
Vitrified Clay Pipe, Extra Strength, Standard Strength, and Perforated
Mineral Wool Roof Insulation Board
Installation of Steel Framing Members to Receive Screw-Attached Gypsum Panel Products
Latex Sealants
Application and Finishing of Gypsum Board Elastomeric Joint Sealants
Steel Drill Screws for the Application of Gypsum Panel Products or Metal Plaster Bases to Steel Studs from 0.033 in. (0.84 mm) to 0.112 in. (2.84 mm) in Thickness
Flexible Fibrous Glass Insulation for Metal Buildings
Steel Self-Piercing Tapping Screws for the Application of Gypsum Panel Products or Metal Plaster Bases to Wood Studs or Steel Studs
Code Reference
9.3.3.2.(1) 4.2.3.8.(1)
4.2.3.8.(1)
Table 5.9.1.1. 9.14.3.1.(1)
9.21.3.4.(1)
Table 5.9.1.1. 9.20.2.1.(1)
Table 5.9.1.1. 9.20.2.1.(1)
Table 5.9.1.1. 9.20.2.1.(1)
9.3.1.8.(1)
3.6.5.4.(4) 3.6.5.5.(1) 9.33.6.4.(4) 9.33.8.2.(2)
Table 5.9.1.1. 9.14.3.1.(1)
Table 5.9.1.1. 9.14.3.1.(1)
9.3.1.8.(1) A-9.25.2.4.(5) Table 5.9.1.1.
Table 5.9.1.1.
Table 5.9.1.1. 9.14.3.1.(1)
Table 5.9.1.1. 9.25.2.2.(1)
Table A-9.11.1.4.-A Table A-9.11.1.4.-B Table A-9.11.1.4.-C Table A-9.11.1.4.-D
Table 5.9.1.1. 9.27.4.2.(2)
Table 5.9.1.1.
Table 5.9.1.1. 9.27.4.2.(2)
9.24.1.4.(1)
Table 5.9.1.1.
Table 5.9.1.1. 9.24.1.4.(1) 9.29.5.7.(1)
ASTM A 792/A 792M-10 ASTM A 1008/A 1008M-13
ASTM A 1011/A 1011M-14
ASTM C 4-04
ASTM C 27-98 ASTM C 73-10
ASTM C 126-13 ASTM C 212-14
ASTM C 260/C 260M-10a ASTM C 411-11
ASTM C 412M-11 ASTM C 444M-03
ASTM C 494/C 494M-13 ASTM C 516-08e1 ASTM C 553-13
ASTM C 612-14 ASTM C 700-13
ASTM C 726-12 ASTM C 754-11
ASTM C 834-10
ASTM C 840-13 ASTM C 920-14
ASTM C 954-11
ASTM C 991-08e1 ASTM C 1002-07
1-4 Division B Amended Page
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
             © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
1.3.1.2.
Issuing Agency
Document Number(2)
Table 1.3.1.2. (Continued)
Title of Document(3)
Glass Mat Gypsum Substrate for Use as Sheathing
Coated Glass Mat Water-Resistant Gypsum Backing Panel
Structural Silicone Sealants
Use of Joint Sealants
Selection of Liquid-Applied Sealants
Solvent Release Sealants
Cylindrical Sealant Backing for Use with Cold Liquid-Applied Sealants
Thermal Performance of Building Materials and Envelope Assemblies by Means of a Hot Box Apparatus
Gypsum Board
Calculating Movement and Other Effects When Establishing Sealant Joint Width
Glass Mat Gypsum Panels
Vapor Pressure of Petroleum Products (Reid Method)
Evaluating Properties of Wood-Base Fiber and Particle Panel Materials
Deep Foundations Under Static Axial Compressive Load Emulsified Asphalt Used as a Protective Coating for Roofing
Asphalt Glass Felt Used in Roofing and Waterproofing
Accelerated Weathering of Fire-Retardant-Treated Wood for Fire Testing
Lap Cement Used with Asphalt Roll Roofing, Non-Fibered, Asbestos-Fibered, and Non-Asbestos-Fibered
Asphalt Roof Coatings – Asbestos-Free
Code Reference
3.1.5.14.(6) 3.1.5.15.(4)
Table 5.9.1.1. Table 9.23.17.2.-A A-9.27.13.2.(2)(a)
3.1.5.14.(6) 3.1.5.15.(4) Table 5.9.1.1. 9.29.5.2.(1)
Table 5.9.1.1. 9.27.4.2.(2)
A-Table 5.9.1.1. A-9.27.4.2.(1)
A-Table 5.9.1.1. A-9.27.4.2.(1)
Table 5.9.1.1. 9.27.4.2.(2)
Table 5.9.1.1. 9.27.4.2.(3)
A-5.9.4.1.(1) A-11.2.2.1.(1)
3.1.5.14.(6) 3.1.5.15.(4)
Table 5.9.1.1. Table 9.23.17.2.-A 9.29.5.2.(1)
Table 9.29.5.3.
A-Table 5.9.1.1. A-9.27.4.2.(1)
3.1.5.14.(6) Table 5.9.1.1.
1.4.1.2.(1)(4) A-9.23.15.2.(4)
A-4.2.7.2.(2)
Table 5.9.1.1. 9.13.2.2.(2) 9.13.3.2.(2)
Table 5.9.1.1.
3.1.5.5.(3) 3.1.5.24.(1) 3.2.3.7.(4) 9.10.14.5.(3) 9.10.15.5.(3)
Table 5.9.1.1. 9.13.3.2.(2) Table 9.26.2.1.-B
Table 5.9.1.1. 9.13.2.2.(2) 9.13.3.2.(2) Table 9.26.2.1.-B
ASTM C 1177/C 1177M-13
ASTM C 1178/C 1178M-13
ASTM C 1184-13
ASTM C 1193-13
ASTM C 1299-03
ASTM C 1311-10
ASTM C 1330-02
ASTM C 1363-11
ASTM C 1396/C 1396M-14
ASTM C 1472-10
ASTM C 1658/C 1658M-13
ASTM D 323-08 ASTM D 1037-12
ASTM D 1143/D 1143M-07 ASTM D 1227-95
ASTM D 2178/D 2178M-13a ASTM D 2898-10
ASTM D 3019-08
ASTM D 4479/D 4479M-07e1
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Amended Page Division B 1-5
                            © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 1.3.1.2.
Division B
Issuing Agency
Document Number(2)
Table 1.3.1.2. (Continued)
Title of Document(3)
EPDM Sheet Used In Single-Ply Roof Membrane
Nonvulcanized (Uncured) Rubber Sheet Used as Roof Flashing
Evaluation of Structural Composite Lumber Products Thermoplastic Polyolefin Based Sheet Roofing
Laboratory Measurement of Airborne Sound Transmission Loss of Building Partitions and Elements
Water Vapor Transmission of Materials
Determining Rate of Air Leakage Through Exterior Windows, Curtain Walls, and Doors Under Specified Pressure Differences Across the Specimen
Structural Performance of Exterior Windows, Doors, Skylights and Curtain Walls by Uniform Static Air Pressure Difference
Water Penetration of Exterior Windows, Skylights, Doors, and Curtain Walls by Uniform Static Air Pressure Difference
Measurement of Airborne Sound Attenuation between Rooms in Buildings
Classification for Rating Sound Insulation
Laboratory Measurement of Impact Sound Transmission Through Floor-Ceiling Assemblies Using the Tapping Machine
Water Penetration of Exterior Windows, Skylights, Doors, and Curtain Walls by Cyclic Static Air Pressure Difference
Determining a Single Number Rating of Airborne Sound Insulation for Use in Multi-Unit Building Specifications
Cohesion/Adhesion of Sprayed Fire-Resistive Materials Applied to Structural Members
Field Measurement of Air Leakage Through Installed Exterior Windows and Doors
Field Measurement of Tapping Machine Impact Sound Transmission Through Floor-Ceiling Assemblies and Associated Support Structures
Field Determination of Water Penetration of Installed Exterior Windows, Skylights, Doors, and Curtain Walls, by Uniform or Cyclic Static Air Pressure Difference
Determining Load Resistance of Glass in Buildings
Code Reference
Table 5.9.1.1. 9.13.3.2.(2) Table 9.26.2.1.-B
Table 5.9.1.1. 9.13.3.2.(2) Table 9.26.2.1.-B
3.1.11.7.(4)
Table 5.9.1.1. 9.13.3.2.(2) Table 9.26.2.1.-B
5.8.1.2.(1) 5.8.1.4.(1) 9.11.1.2.(1)
5.5.1.2.(3) 9.13.2.2.(2) 9.25.4.2.(1) 9.25.5.1.(1) 9.30.1.2.(1)
5.9.3.4.(2) A-5.9.3.4.(2)
A-5.9.3.2.(1)
5.9.3.5.(2) A-5.9.3.5.(2)
5.8.1.2.(2) 5.8.1.4.(7) 9.11.1.2.(2) A-9.11.
A-1.4.1.2.(1)(4) 5.8.1.2.(1) 5.8.1.2.(2) 5.8.1.4.(7) 5.8.1.5.(3) 9.11.1.2.(1) 9.11.1.2.(2)
A-9.11.
5.9.3.5.(2) A-5.9.3.5.(2)
A-9.11.
Table 9.10.3.1.-B
A-5.9.2.3.(1) A-5.9.3.4.(2)
A-9.11.
A-5.9.2.3.(1) A-5.9.3.5.(2)
4.3.6.1.(1) 9.6.1.3.(1)
ASTM D 4637/D 4637M-12
ASTM D 4811/D 4811M-06
ASTM D 5456-10a
ASTM D 6878/D 6878M-11a
ASTM E 90-09
ASTM E 96/E 96M-13
ASTM E 283-04
ASTM E 330/E 330M-02 ASTM E 331-00
ASTM E 336-11
ASTM E 413-10
ASTM E 492-09e1 ASTM E 547-00 ASTM E 597-95 ASTM E 736-00e1 ASTM E 783-02 ASTM E 1007-13b ASTM E 1105-00
ASTM E 1300-12ae1
1-6 Division B Amended Page
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
                  © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
1.3.1.2.
Issuing Agency
Document Number(2)
Table 1.3.1.2. (Continued)
Title of Document(3)
Air Permeance of Building Materials
Insulating Glass Unit Performance and Evaluation
Security of Swinging Door Assemblies Driven Fasteners: Nails, Spikes, and Staples
Window Fall Prevention Devices With Emergency Escape (Egress) Release Mechanisms
Care of Preservative-Treated Wood Products
Granulats – Détermination de l’indice pétrographique du potentiel de gonflement sulfatique des matériaux granulaires – Méthode d’essai pour l’évaluation de l’IPPG
Granulats – Guide d’application de la méthode d’essai pour la caractérisation du potentiel de gonflement sulfatique des matériaux granulaires
Ready-Mix Concrete – Certification Program
Polyethylene (PE) Pipe and Fittings for Soil and Foundation Drainage
Polyethylene (PE) Pipe and Fittings – Smooth Inside Wall Open Profile Pipes for Storm Sewer and Soil Drainage – Characteristics and Test Methods
Unplasticized Poly(Vinyl Chloride) (PVC) Rigid Pipe and Fittings,
150 mm in Diameter or Smaller, for Underground Sewage Applications
Unplasticized Poly(Vinyl Chloride) [PVC-U] Pipe and Fittings – Pipes of 200 mm to 600 mm in Diameter for Underground Sewage and Soil Drainage – Characteristics and Test Methods
Dépôts d’ocre dans les systèmes de drainage des bâtiments – Partie I : Évaluation du risque pour la construction de nouveaux bâtiments et diagnostic pour des bâtiments existants et Partie II : Méthodes d’installation proposées pour nouveaux bâtiments et bâtiments existants
National Farm Building Code of Canada 1995
National Energy Code of Canada for Buildings 2017 National Fire Code of Canada 2015
Code Reference
5.4.1.2.(1)
Table 5.9.1.1. 9.6.1.2.(1)
9.7.5.2.(2) A-9.7.5.2.(2)
9.23.3.1.(1) 9.26.2.3.(1) 9.29.5.6.(1)
9.8.8.1.(4)(b)(iii)
4.2.3.2.(2) A-4.2.5.8.(2)
A-4.2.5.8.(2)
4.1.1.6.(1) 9.3.1.1.(5)
Table 5.9.1.1. 9.14.3.1.(1)
9.14.3.1.(1)
9.14.3.1.(1) 9.14.3.1.(1)
A-4.2.2.1.(1) A-5.7.1.2.(2) A-9.14.2.1.(1)
1.1.1.1.(3)(4) A-1.4.1.2.(1)(4) A-Table 4.1.2.1. A-5.1.2.1.(1)
A-2.2.1.1.(1)(4) A-3.2.1.1.(1)(4)
1.4.1.2.(1)(4) 2.1.1.2.(4)(4) A-2.2.1.1.(1)(4) A-3.2.1.1.(1)(4) 1.1.4.1.(1) 3.1.13.1.(1) 3.2.3.21.(1) 3.2.5.16.(1) 3.3.1.2.(1) 3.3.1.10.(1) 3.3.2.3.(1) 3.3.2.16.(1) 3.3.4.3.(4) 3.3.5.2.(1)
ASTM E 2178-13 ASTM E 2190-10
ASTM F 476-14 ASTM F 1667-13
ASTM F 2090-17
AWPA M4-11
BNQ NQ 2560-500/2003
BNQ NQ 2560-510/2003
BNQ NQ 2621-905/2018 BNQ BNQ 3624-115/2016 BNQ BNQ 3624-120/2016
BNQ NQ 3624-130/2015 BNQ NQ 3624-135/2015
BNQ BNQ 3661-500/2012
CCBFC NRCC 38732
CCBFC NRC-CONST-56215 CCBFC NRCC 56192
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Amended Page Division B 1-7
                        © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 1.3.1.2.
Division B
Issuing Agency
Document Number(2)
Table 1.3.1.2. (Continued)
Title of Document(3) Code Reference
1-8 Division B
Amended Page
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
   CCBFC
  CCBFC
CCBFC
   NRCC 56192
 NRCC 56193
NRCC 56194
 National Fire Code of Canada 2015 (continued)
National Plumbing Code of Canada 2015
Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B)
  3.3.6.1.(1) 3.3.6.3.(1) 3.3.6.3.(2) 3.3.6.4.(1) 3.3.6.4.(2) 3.3.6.6.(1) 3.7.3.1.(1) A-3.1.2.3.(1) A-3.2.4.6.(2) A-3.2.6. A-3.2.7.8.(3) A-3.3. A-3.3.1.7.(1) A-3.3.3.1.(1) A-3.3.6.1.(1) A-3.9.3.1.(1) 6.3.4.3.(1) 6.3.4.4.(1) 6.9.1.2.(1) 9.10.20.4.(1)
2.1.1.2.(4)(4) A-2.2.1.1.(1)(4) A-3.2.1.1.(1)(4) A-4.1.6.4.(3) 5.6.2.2.(2) 6.3.2.15.(5) 7.1.2.1.(1) 9.31.6.2.(1) Appendix C
A-4.1.1.3.(1) A-4.1.1.3.(2) A-4.1.2.1. A-4.1.2.1.(1)
A-4.1.3.
A-4.1.3.2.(2) A-4.1.3.2.(4) A-4.1.3.2.(5) A-4.1.3.3.(2) A-4.1.3.4.(1) A-4.1.3.5.(1) A-4.1.3.5.(3) A-4.1.3.6.(1) A-4.1.3.6.(2) A-4.1.3.6.(3) A-4.1.5.8.
A-4.1.5.17.
A-4.1.6.2. A-4.1.6.3.(2) A-4.1.6.4.(1) A-4.1.7.2. A-4.1.7.3.(5)(c) A-4.1.7.3.(10) A-4.1.7.9.(1) A-4.1.8.2.(1) A-4.1.8.3.(4) A-4.1.8.3.(6) A-4.1.8.3.(7)(b) and (c)
      © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
1.3.1.2.
Issuing Agency
Document Number(2)
Table 1.3.1.2. (Continued)
Title of Document(3)
Code Reference
CGSB CAN/CGSB-1.501-M89 CGSB CAN/CGSB-7.2-94 CGSB CAN/CGSB-10.3-92
CGSB CAN/CGSB-11.3-M87
Method for Permeance of Coated Wallboard Adjustable Steel Columns
Air Setting Refractory Mortar
Hardboard
5.5.1.2.(2) 9.25.4.2.(5)
9.17.3.4.(1) A-9.17.3.4.
9.21.3.4.(2) 9.21.3.9.(1) 9.22.2.2.(2)
Table 5.9.1.1. 9.27.9.1.(2) 9.29.7.1.(1) 9.30.2.2.(1)
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Amended Page Division B 1-9
   CCBFC
  CCBFC
 NRCC 56194
 NRCC 56194
Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B) (continued)
Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B) (continued)
  A-4.1.8.3.(8) A-4.1.8.4.(3) and Table 4.1.8.4.-A
A-Table 4.1.8.5. A-Table 4.1.8.6. A-4.1.8.7.(1) A-4.1.8.9.(4) A-4.1.8.9.(5) A-4.1.8.10.(4) A-4.1.8.10.(5) A-4.1.8.10.(7) A-4.1.8.11.(3) A-4.1.8.12.(1)(a) A-4.1.8.12.(1)(b) A-4.1.8.12.(3) A-4.1.8.12.(4)(a) A-4.1.8.13.(4) A-4.1.8.15.(1) A-4.1.8.15.(3) A-4.1.8.15.(4) A-4.1.8.15.(5) A-4.1.8.15.(6) A-4.1.8.15.(7) A-4.1.8.15.(8)
A-4.1.8.16.(1) A-4.1.8.16.(4) A-4.1.8.16.(6)(a) A-4.1.8.16.(7) A-4.1.8.16.(8)(a) A-4.1.8.16.(10) A-4.1.8.17.(1) A-4.1.8.18. A-4.1.8.18.(13) A-4.1.8.18.(14) and (15) A-4.1.8.19.(3)(a) A-4.1.8.19.(4) and 4.1.8.21.(5) A-4.1.8.21.(4)(a) A-4.2.4.1.(3) A-4.2.4.1.(5) A-4.2.5.1.(1) A-4.2.6.1.(1) A-4.2.7.2.(1) A-4.3.6.1.(1) A-4.4.2.1.(1)
A-5.1.4.2. A-5.2.2.2.(4)
          © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 1.3.1.2.
Division B
Issuing Agency
Document Number(2)
Table 1.3.1.2. (Continued)
Title of Document(3)
Hardboard, Precoated, Factory Finished, for Exterior Cladding Tempered or Laminated Safety Glass
Flat, Clear Sheet Glass
Flat, Clear Float Glass
Heat Absorbing Glass
Insulating Glass Units
Glass, Light and Heat Reflecting Wired Safety Glass
Structural Design of Glass for Buildings
Mildew-Resistant Sealing Compound for Tubs and Tiles
Primer, Asphalt, Unfilled, for Asphalt Roofing, Dampproofing and Waterproofing
Hot-Applied, Rubberized Asphalt for Roofing and Waterproofing
Application for Hot-Applied Rubberized Asphalt for Roofing and Waterproofing
Polyvinyl Chloride Roofing and Waterproofing Membrane
Application of Sheet Applied Flexible Polyvinyl Chloride Roofing Membrane
Membrane, Modified, Bituminous, Prefabricated, and Reinforced for Roofing
Membrane, Elastomeric, Cold-Applied Liquid, for Non-Exposed Use in Roofing and Waterproofing
Rigid Vinyl Siding, Soffits and Fascia Thermal Insulation, Phenolic, Faced
Code Reference
Table 5.9.1.1. 9.27.9.1.(1)
3.3.1.19.(3) 3.4.6.15.(1) 3.4.6.15.(3) Table 5.9.1.1. 9.6.1.2.(1) 9.6.1.4.(1) 9.8.8.7.(1)
Table 5.9.1.1. 9.6.1.2.(1)
Table 5.9.1.1. 9.6.1.2.(1)
Table 5.9.1.1. 9.6.1.2.(1)
Table 5.9.1.1. 9.6.1.2.(1)
Table 5.9.1.1. 9.6.1.2.(1)
3.3.1.19.(3) 3.4.6.15.(1) 3.4.6.15.(3) Table 5.9.1.1. 9.6.1.2.(1) 9.6.1.4.(1) 9.8.8.7.(1)
4.3.6.1.(1) 9.6.1.3.(1) A-9.6.1.3.(2)
9.29.10.5.(1)
Table 5.9.1.1. 9.13.3.2.(2) Table 9.26.2.1.-A
Table 5.9.1.1. 9.13.3.2.(2) Table 9.26.2.1.-B
9.26.15.1.(1)
Table 5.9.1.1. 9.13.3.2.(2) Table 9.26.2.1.-B
9.26.16.1.(1)
Table 5.9.1.1. 9.13.3.2.(2) Table 9.26.2.1.-B
Table 5.9.1.1. 9.13.3.2.(2) Table 9.26.2.1.-B
Table 5.9.1.1. 9.27.12.1.(1)
Table 9.23.17.2.-A 9.25.2.2.(1)
CGSB CAN/CGSB-11.5-M87 CGSB CAN/CGSB-12.1-M90
CGSB CAN/CGSB-12.2-M91 CGSB CAN/CGSB-12.3-M91 CGSB CAN/CGSB-12.4-M91 CGSB CAN/CGSB-12.8-97 CGSB CAN/CGSB-12.10-M76 CGSB CAN/CGSB-12.11-M90
CGSB CAN/CGSB-12.20-M89
CGSB CAN/CGSB-19.22-M89 CGSB 37-GP-9Ma-1983
CGSB CAN/CGSB-37.50-M89
CGSB CAN/CGSB-37.51-M90 CGSB CAN/CGSB-37.54-95
CGSB 37-GP-55M-1979 CGSB 37-GP-56M-1985
CGSB CAN/CGSB-37.58-M86
CGSB CAN/CGSB-41.24-95 CGSB CAN/CGSB-51.25-M87
1-10 Division B Amended Page
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
             © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
1.3.1.2.
Issuing Agency
Document Number(2)
Table 1.3.1.2. (Continued)
Title of Document(3)
Thermal Insulation, Polystyrene, Loose Fill Sheathing, Membrane, Breather Type
Vapour Barrier Sheet, Excluding Polyethylene, for Use in Building Construction
Vapour Barrier, Polyethylene Sheet for Use in Building Construction
Depressurization Test
Adhesive for Field-Gluing Plywood to Lumber Framing for Floor Systems
Doors, Mirrored Glass, Sliding or Folding, Wardrobe Sheet, Aluminum Alloy, Prefinished, Residential
Prefinished Aluminum Siding, Soffits, and Fascia, for Residential Use
Prefinished Galvanized and Aluminum-Zinc Alloy Steel Sheet for Residential Use
Galvanized Steel and Aluminum-Zinc Alloy Coated Steel Siding, Soffits and Fascia, Prefinished, Residential
Determination of the Airtightness of Building Envelopes by the Fan Depressurization Method
Crane-Supporting Steel Structures: Design Guide Testing of Fresh Air Mixing Devices
Air Permeance of Building Materials
Residential Carbon Monoxide Alarming Devices
Concrete Materials and Methods of Concrete Construction
Design of Concrete Structures
Code Reference
9.25.2.2.(1)
Table 5.9.1.1. 9.20.13.9.(1) Table 9.26.2.1.-A 9.27.3.2.(1)
Table 5.9.1.1. 9.25.4.2.(4)
Table 5.9.1.1. 9.13.2.2.(2) 9.18.6.2.(1) 9.25.3.2.(2) 9.25.3.6.(1) 9.25.4.2.(3)
9.32.3.8.(7)
A-9.23.4.2.(2)
Table A-9.23.4.2.(2)-C
9.6.1.2.(2) A-9.6.1.2.(2)
Table 5.9.1.1. 9.27.11.1.(4) A-9.27.11.1.(3) and (4)
3.2.3.6.(5)
Table 5.9.1.1. 9.10.14.5.(8) 9.10.14.5.(12) 9.10.15.5.(7) 9.10.15.5.(11) 9.27.11.1.(3) A-9.27.11.1.(3) and (4)
Table 5.9.1.1. 9.27.11.1.(2)
Table 5.9.1.1. 9.27.11.1.(1)
A-11.2.1.2.(6)
A-4.1.3.2.(2)
A-9.32.3.4.
Table A-9.25.5.1.(1)
6.9.3.1.(2) 9.32.3.9.(2) 9.32.3.9.(3)
4.2.3.6.(1) 4.2.3.9.(1) Table 5.9.1.1. 9.3.1.1.(1) 9.3.1.1.(4) 9.3.1.3.(1) 9.3.1.4.(1)
Table 4.1.8.9. 4.3.3.1.(1) A-4.1.3.2.(4) A-4.1.8.16.(1) A-4.1.8.16.(4) A-4.3.3.1.(1)
CGSB 51-GP-27M-1979 CGSB CAN/CGSB-51.32-M77
CGSB CAN/CGSB-51.33-M89 CGSB CAN/CGSB-51.34-M86
CGSB CAN/CGSB-51.71-2005 CGSB CAN/CGSB-71.26-M88
CGSB CAN/CGSB-82.6-M86 CGSB CAN/CGSB-93.1-M85
CGSB CAN/CGSB-93.2-M91
CGSB CAN/CGSB-93.3-M91 CGSB CAN/CGSB-93.4-92 CGSB CAN/CGSB-149.10-M86
CISC/ICCA 2013
CMHC 1993
CMHC 1988
CSA CAN/CSA-6.19-01
CSA A23.1-14
CSA A23.3-14
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Amended Page Division B 1-11
                               © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 1.3.1.2.
Division B
Issuing Agency
Document Number(2)
Table 1.3.1.2. (Continued)
Title of Document(3)
Precast Concrete – Materials and Construction Fired Masonry Brick Made from Clay or Shale
Gypsum Board
Interior Furring, Lathing and Gypsum Plastering Gypsum Board Application
Natural Airflow Ventilators for Buildings
Asphalt Shingles Made From Organic Felt and Surfaced with Mineral Granules/Asphalt Shingles Made From Glass Felt and Surfaced with Mineral Granules
Asphalt-Coated Roofing Sheets
Asphalt Saturated Organic Roofing Felt
Asphalt for Constructing Built-Up Roof Coverings and Waterproofing Systems
Asphalt Glass Felt Used in Roofing and Waterproofing
Dynamic Wind Uplift Resistance of Membrane-Roofing Systems
Self-Adhering Polymer Modified Bituminous Sheet Materials Used as Steep Roofing Underlayment for Ice Dam Protection
Asphalt Shingle Application on Roof Slopes 1:3 and Steeper Asphalt Shingle Application on Roof Slopes 1:6 to Less Than 1:3 Concrete Block Masonry Units
Concrete Brick Masonry Units Prefaced Concrete Masonry Units Mortar and Grout for Unit Masonry
Code Reference
A-4.3.3.1.(1)
Table 5.9.1.1. 9.20.2.1.(1)
3.1.5.14.(6) 3.1.5.15.(4)
9.29.4.1.(1)
3.2.3.6.(5) 9.10.9.2.(4) 9.10.12.4.(3) 9.10.14.5.(8) 9.10.14.5.(12) 9.10.15.5.(7) 9.10.15.5.(11) 9.29.5.1.(2) Table 9.10.3.1.-A Table 9.10.3.1.-B
Table 5.9.1.1. 9.19.1.2.(5)
Table 5.9.1.1. Table 9.26.2.1.-B
Table 5.9.1.1. 9.13.3.2.(2) Table 9.26.2.1.-B
Table 5.9.1.1. Table 9.26.2.1.-B
Table 5.9.1.1. 9.13.2.2.(2) 9.13.3.2.(2) Table 9.26.2.1.-B
Table 5.9.1.1. 9.13.3.2.(2) Table 9.26.2.1.-B
5.2.2.2.(4) A-5.2.2.2.(4)
Table 9.26.2.1.-B
Table 5.9.1.1. 9.26.1.3.(1)
Table 5.9.1.1. 9.26.1.3.(1)
Table 5.9.1.1. 9.15.2.2.(1) 9.17.5.1.(1) 9.20.2.1.(1) 9.20.2.6.(1)
Table A-9.11.1.4.-A
Table 5.9.1.1. 9.20.2.1.(1)
Table 5.9.1.1. 9.20.2.1.(1)
Table 5.9.1.1. 9.15.2.2.(3) 9.20.3.1.(1)
CSA A23.4-16
CSA CAN/CSA-A82-14
CSA CAN/CSA-A82.27-M91
CSA A82.30-M1980 CSA A82.31-M1980
CSA CAN3-A93-M82
CSA A123.1-05/A123.5-05
CSA CAN/CSA-A123.2-03
CSA A123.3-05
CSA CAN/CSA-A123.4-04
CSA A123.17-05
CSA CAN/CSA-A123.21-10 CSA A123.22-08
CSA CAN3-A123.51-M85 CSA CAN3-A123.52-M85 CSA A165.1-14
CSA A165.2-14 CSA A165.3-14 CSA A179-14
1-12 Division B Amended Page
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
                  © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
1.3.1.2.
Issuing Agency
Document Number(2)
Table 1.3.1.2. (Continued)
Title of Document(3)
Concrete Roof Tiles
Clay Flue Liners
Connectors for Masonry
Masonry Construction for Buildings
Design and Construction of Masonry Chimneys and Fireplaces
NAFS – North American Fenestration Standard/Specification for Windows, Doors, and Skylights
Canadian Supplement to AAMA/WDMA/CSA 101/I.S.2/A440-17, NAFS – North American Fenestration Standard/Specification for Windows, Doors, and Skylights
Fenestration Energy Performance/User Guide to CSA A440.2-19, Fenestration Energy Performance
Fenestration Energy Performance
User Guide to CSA A440.2-19, Fenestration Energy Performance Window, Door, and Skylight Installation
Certification of Manufacturers of Steel Building Systems Cementitious Materials for Use in Concrete
Boiler, Pressure Vessel, and Pressure Piping Code
Mechanical Refrigeration Code
Installation Code for Lightning Protection Systems Wire Nails, Spikes and Staples
Code Reference
Table 5.9.1.1. Table 9.26.2.1.-B 9.26.17.1.(1)
9.21.3.3.(1)
A-9.21.4.5.(2)
Table 5.9.1.1. 9.15.2.2.(3) 9.20.3.2.(7) 9.20.15.2.(1)
9.21.3.5.(1) 9.22.1.4.(1) 9.22.5.2.(2)
5.9.2.2.(1) A-5.3.1.2. A-5.9.2.3.(1) A-5.9.3.1.(1) 9.7.4.1.(1) 9.7.4.2.(1) 9.7.5.1.(1) 9.7.5.3.(1) A-9.7.4.2.(1) 11.2.2.4.(2)
5.9.2.2.(1) 5.9.3.5.(3) A-5.9.2.2. A-5.9.3.5.(3) 9.7.4.2.(1) A-9.7.4.2.(1)
11.2.2.4.(1)
A-5.3.1.2. A-5.9.3.3.(1) A-9.7.4.2.(1)
A-5.3.1.2.
A-5.9.2.3.(1) 9.7.6.1.(1) A-9.7.4.2.(1)
4.3.4.3.(1)
Table 5.9.1.1. 9.3.1.2.(1) 9.28.2.1.(1)
6.2.1.5.(1) 9.31.6.2.(2) 9.33.5.2.(1)
3.6.3.1.(6) 6.2.1.5.(1) 9.33.5.2.(1)
3.6.1.3.(1)
9.23.3.1.(1) 9.26.2.3.(1) 9.29.5.6.(1) A-Table 9.23.3.5.-B
CSA CAN/CSA-A220 Series-06
CSA CAN/CSA-A324-M88 CSA A370-14
CSA A371-14
CSA CAN/CSA-A405-M87
CSA AAMA/WDMA/CSA 101/I.S.2/A440-17
CSA A440S1-19
CSA A440.2-19/A440.3-19 CSA A440.2-14
CSA A440.3-19
CSA CAN/CSA-A440.4-19
CSA A660-10 CSA A3001-13
CSA B51-14
CSA B52-13
CSA CAN/CSA-B72-M87 CSA B111-1974
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Amended Page Division B 1-13
                       © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 1.3.1.2.
Division B
Issuing Agency
Document Number(2)
Table 1.3.1.2. (Continued)
Title of Document(3)
Installation Code for Oil-Burning Equipment
Natural Gas and Propane Installation Code
Plastic Drain and Sewer Pipe and Pipe Fittings Installation Code for Hydronic Heating Systems Lifts for Persons with Physical Disabilities
Installation Code for Solid-Fuel-Burning Appliances and Equipment
Accessible Design for the Built Environment
Canadian Electrical Code, Part I
Code Reference
6.2.1.5.(1) 9.31.6.2.(2) 9.33.5.2.(1)
6.2.1.5.(1) 9.10.22.1.(1) 9.31.6.2.(2) 9.33.5.2.(1) A-9.10.22.
Table 5.9.1.1. 9.14.3.1.(1)
6.2.1.1.(1) 9.33.4.2.(1)
3.8.3.7.(1) 3.8.3.7.(2)(c) 3.8.3.7.(3) A-3.8.2.3.(2)(j) A-3.8.3.7.(1)
6.2.1.5.(1) 9.22.10.2.(1) 9.31.6.2.(2) 9.33.5.3.(1) A-9.33.1.1.(2) A-9.33.5.3.
3.8.3.1.(1) Table 3.8.3.1. A-3.8.3.1.(1)
3.2.4.5.(1) 3.3.6.2.(4) 3.6.1.2.(1) 3.6.2.1.(6) 3.6.2.7.(1) A-3.1.4.3.(1)(b)(i) A-3.2.4.5.(1) A-3.2.4.20.(7)(a) A-3.3.6.2.(4) 6.2.1.5.(1) 9.31.6.2.(2) 9.33.5.2.(1) 9.34.1.1.(1) A-9.10.22. A-9.34.2.
3.1.4.3.(1) 3.1.4.3.(3) 3.1.5.21.(1) 3.1.5.21.(3) 3.1.5.21.(5) 9.34.1.5.(1)
9.32.3.10.(7)
3.2.7.4.(2) 3.4.5.1.(3) 9.9.11.3.(3) 9.9.12.3.(7)
A-9.10.22. 3.1.5.23.(1)
3.1.5.7.(4)(b)
CSA B139-09
CSA B149.1-15
CSA CAN/CSA-B182.1-15 CSA B214-16
CSA B355-09
CSA B365-17
CSA B651-12
CSA C22.1-18
CSA C22.2 No. 0.3-09
CSA C22.2 No. 113-10 CSA C22.2 No. 141-10
CSA CAN/CSA-C22.2 No. 150-M89 CSA C22.2 No. 211.0-03
CSA C22.2 No. 236-15
Test Methods for Electrical Wires and Cables
Fans and Ventilators Emergency Lighting Equipment
Microwave Ovens
General Requirements and Methods of Testing for Nonmetallic Conduit
Heating and cooling equipment
1-14 Division B Amended Page
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
                                 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
1.3.1.2.
Issuing Agency
Document Number(2)
Table 1.3.1.2. (Continued)
Title of Document(3)
Optical Fiber Cable and Communication Cable Raceway Systems
Rating the Performance of Residential Mechanical Ventilating Equipment
Emergency Electrical Power Supply for Buildings
Standard Laboratory Methods of Test for Rating the Performance of Heat/Energy-Recovery Ventilators
Design and Installation of Earth Energy Systems
Determining the Required Capacity of Residential Space Heating and Cooling Appliances
Residential Mechanical Ventilation Systems
Carbon Steel Bars for Concrete Reinforcement Structural Quality Steel
Corrugated Steel Pipe Products Wood Preservation
Specification of Treated Wood
Processing and Treatment
Preservative Formulations
Preservative Treatment of Wood for Building Foundation Systems, Basements, and Crawl Spaces by Pressure Processes
Engineering Design in Wood
Evaluation of Adhesives for Structural Wood Products (Exterior Exposure)
Evaluation of Adhesives for Structural Wood Products (Limited Moisture Exposure)
Western Red Cedar Shakes and Shingles
Eastern White Cedar Shingles
Code Reference
3.1.5.23.(1)
9.32.3.10.(1) 9.32.3.10.(2) Table 9.32.3.10.-B
3.2.7.5.(1)
6.3.1.8.(8) 9.32.3.10.(4) 9.32.3.10.(5)
9.33.5.2.(1) 9.33.5.1.(1)
9.32.3.1.(1) A-9.32.3.1.(1) A-9.32.3.5. A-9.32.3.7. A-9.32.3.8. A-9.33.6.13.
9.3.1.1.(4)
4.2.3.8.(1) Table 5.9.1.1. 9.23.4.3.(2)
Table 5.9.1.1. 9.14.3.1.(1)
3.1.4.5.(1) 4.2.3.2.(1) 4.2.3.2.(2) Table 5.9.1.1.
9.3.2.9.(5) 4.2.3.2.(1) 4.2.3.2.(1) 4.2.3.2.(1)
Table 4.1.8.9.(5) 4.3.1.1.(1) A-5.1.4.1.(6)(b) and (c) A-9.15.2.4.(1) A-9.23.4.2.
Table 9.10.3.1.-B Table 9.10.3.1.-B
Table 5.9.1.1. Table 9.26.2.1.-B 9.27.7.1.(1)
Table 5.9.1.1. Table 9.26.2.1.-B 9.27.7.1.(1)
CSA CAN/CSA-C22.2 No. 262-04 CSA CAN/CSA-C260-M90
CSA C282-15
CSA CAN/CSA-C439-09
CSA C448 Series-13 CSA F280-12
CSA CAN/CSA-F326-M91
CSA G30.18-09 CSA G40.21-13
CSA G401-14
CSA CAN/CSA-O80 Series-08
CSA CAN/CSA-O80.1-08 CSA CAN/CSA-O80.2-08 CSA CAN/CSA-O80.3-08 CSA O80.15-97
CSA O86-14
CSA O112.9-10 CSA O112.10-08 CSA O118.1-08
CSA O118.2-08
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Amended Page Division B 1-15
                  © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 1.3.1.2.
Division B
Issuing Agency
Document Number(2)
Table 1.3.1.2. (Continued)
Title of Document(3)
Douglas Fir Plywood
Structural Glued-Laminated Timber
Wood Flush Doors Softwood Lumber
Canadian Softwood Plywood
Poplar Plywood
Qualification Code for Manufacturers of Structural Glued-Laminated Timber
Construction Sheathing
OSB and Waferboard
Code Reference
Table 5.9.1.1. 9.23.15.2.(1) 9.23.16.2.(1) Table 9.23.17.2.-A 9.27.8.1.(1) 9.30.2.2.(1)
CSA O121-08
CSA CAN/CSA-O122-16
CSA CAN/CSA-O132.2 Series-90 CSA O141-05
CSA O151-09
CSA O153-13
CSA O177-06
CSA O325-07
CSA O437.0-93
Span Table Span Table Span Table
Span Table Span Table
9.7.4.3.(4)
Table 5.9.1.1. 9.3.2.6.(1) A-9.3.2.1.(1)
Table 5.9.1.1. 9.23.15.2.(1) 9.23.16.2.(1) Table 9.23.17.2.-A 9.27.8.1.(1) 9.30.2.2.(1)
Span Table 9.23.12.3.-A Span Table 9.23.12.3.-B Span Table 9.23.12.3.-C
Table 5.9.1.1. 9.23.15.2.(1) 9.23.16.2.(1) Table 9.23.17.2.-A 9.27.8.1.(1) 9.30.2.2.(1)
4.3.1.2.(1)
Span Table 9.23.4.2.-K Span Table 9.23.12.3.-D
Table 5.9.1.1.
Table 9.23.13.6. 9.23.15.2.(1) 9.23.15.4.(2) 9.23.16.2.(1) 9.23.16.3.(2) 9.29.9.1.(2)
9.29.9.2.(5)
Span Table 9.23.12.3.-A Span Table 9.23.12.3.-B Span Table 9.23.12.3.-C
Table 5.9.1.1. 9.23.15.2.(1) 9.23.15.4.(2) 9.23.16.2.(1) 9.23.16.3.(2) Table 9.23.17.2.-A 9.27.10.1.(1) 9.29.9.1.(2) 9.30.2.2.(1)
Span Table 9.23.12.3.-A Span Table 9.23.12.3.-B Span Table 9.23.12.3.-C A-9.23.15.4.(2)
1-16 Division B
Amended Page
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
9.23.12.3.-A 9.23.12.3.-B 9.23.12.3.-C
9.23.4.2.-K 9.23.12.3.-D
                            © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
1.3.1.2.
Issuing Agency
Document Number(2)
Table 1.3.1.2. (Continued)
Title of Document(3)
Canadian Highway Bridge Design Code Design of Steel Structures
Antennas, Towers, and Antenna-Supporting Structures
North American Specification for the Design of Cold-Formed Steel Structural Members (using the Appendix B provisions applicable to Canada)
Strength Design in Aluminum/Commentary on CSA S157-05, Strength Design in Aluminum
Falsework for Construction Purposes
Access Scaffolding for Construction Purposes Concrete Formwork
Design of Masonry Structures
Load Test Procedure for Wood Roof Trusses for Houses and Small Buildings
Air-, Cable-, and Frame-Supported Membrane Structures Permanent Wood Foundations for Housing and Small Buildings
Parking Structures
Guideline on Durability in Buildings
Seismic Risk Reduction of Operational and Functional Components (OFCs) of Buildings
Electrical Safety and Essential Electrical Systems in Health Care Facilities
Health and Safety Code for Suspended Equipment Operations Structural Requirements for Manufactured Homes
Site Preparation, Foundation, and Installation of Buildings
Safety Code for Suspended Elevating Platforms
Special Requirements for Heating, Ventilation, and Air-Conditioning (HVAC) Systems in Health Care Facilities
Oil and Gas Pipeline Systems
Medical Gas Pipeline Systems – Part 1: Pipelines for Medical Gases, Medical Vacuum, Medical Support Gases, and Anaesthetic Gas Scavenging Systems
Moisture and Wood-Frame Buildings Introduction to Wood Building Technology Wood Reference Handbook
The Span Book
Code Reference
A-Table 4.1.5.3. A-Table 4.1.5.9.
Table 4.1.8.9. 4.3.4.1.(1) A-4.1.5.11. A-Table 4.1.8.9. A-4.3.4.1.(1)
4.1.6.15.(1) 4.1.7.11.(1)
4.1.8.1.(5) Table 4.1.8.9. 4.3.4.2.(1)
4.3.5.1.(1)
4.1.1.3.(4)
4.1.1.3.(4)
4.1.1.3.(4)
Table 4.1.8.9. 4.3.2.1.(1) A-5.1.4.1.(6)(b) and (c)
9.23.14.11.(5)
4.4.1.1.(1)
9.15.2.4.(1) 9.16.5.1.(1) A-9.15.2.4.(1)
4.4.2.1.(1) A-5.1.4.2. A-Table 4.1.8.18.
3.2.7.3.(4) 3.2.7.6.(1) A-3.2.7.6.(1)
3.5.5.1.(1)
9.12.2.2.(6) 9.15.1.3.(1)
9.15.1.3.(1) 9.23.6.3.(1)
3.5.5.1.(1)
6.2.1.1.(1) 6.3.2.15.(1)
3.2.3.22.(1) 3.7.3.1.(1)
A-5.6.2.1. A-9.27.3.8.(4) A-9.27.3.8.(4) A-9.23.4.2.
CSA S6-14 CSA S16-14
CSA S37-13 CSA S136-16
CSA CAN/CSA-S157-05/S157.1-05
CSA S269.1-1975
CSA S269.2-16
CSA CAN/CSA-S269.3-M92 CSA S304-14
CSA S307-M1980
CSA S367-12 CSA S406-16
CSA S413-14 CSA S478-95 CSA S832-14
CSA Z32-09
CSA CAN/CSA-Z91-17 CSA Z240.2.1-09
CSA Z240.10.1-16
CSA CAN/CSA-Z271-10 (C2015) CSA CAN/CSA-Z317.2-10
CSA CAN/CSA-Z662-15 CSA Z7396.1-12
CWC BPS No. 1-2000 CWC 1997
CWC 2000
CWC 2009
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Amended Page Division B 1-17
         © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 1.3.1.2.
Division B
Issuing Agency
ECC 2013
Document Number(2)
Table 1.3.1.2. (Continued)
Title of Document(3)
EIFS Practice Manual
Radon Prevention in the Design and Construction of Schools and Other Large Buildings
NEHRP Recommended Provisions for Seismic Regulations for New Buildings and Other Structures
NEHRP Recommended Seismic Provisions for New Buildings and Other Structures
Deflection Serviceability Criteria for Residential Floors
Guide for Designing Energy-Efficient Building Enclosures for Wood-Frame Multi-Unit Residential Buildings in Marine to Cold Climate Zones in North America
Exposure Guidelines for Residential Indoor Air Quality Radon: A Guide for Canadian Homeowners
Hazardous Products Act
Workplace Hazardous Materials Information System (WHMIS)
Hazardous Products Regulations
Fungal Contamination in Public Buildings: Health Effects and Investigation Methods
Guide for Radon Measurements in Public Buildings (Schools, Hospitals, Care Facilities, Detention Centres)
Guide for Radon Measurements in Residential Dwellings (Homes) Hardwood and Decorative Plywood
Loudness Testing and Rating Procedure
Airflow Test Procedure
Sound System Equipment – Part 16: Objective Rating of Speech Intelligibility by Speech Transmission Index
Graphical symbols – Safety colours and safety signs – Part 1: Design principles for safety signs and safety markings
Graphical symbols – Safety colours and safety signs – Registered safety signs
Fire Detection and Alarm Systems – Part 19: Design, Installation, Commissioning and Service of Sound Systems for Emergency Purposes
Ergonomics – Danger signals for public and work areas – Auditory danger signals
Code Reference
A-5.9.4.1.(1) A-9.27.13.1.(1)
A-5.4.1.1. 6.2.1.1.(1)
A-4.1.8.18.(14) and (15) A-4.1.8.18.(14) and (15)
A-9.23.4.2.(2) A-5.6.2.1.
A-6.3.1.6. A-9.25.5.2.
A-5.4.1.1. A-6.2.1.1. A-9.13.4.3.
A-1.4.1.2.(1)(4) A-9.25.2.2.(2)
A-1.4.1.2.(1)(4) A-3.3.1.2.(1)
1.4.1.2.(1)(4) A-3.3.1.2.(1)
A-5.5.1.1.
A-5.4.1.1. A-6.2.1.1.
A-9.13.4.3.
Table 5.9.1.1. 9.27.8.1.(1) 9.30.2.2.(1)
9.32.3.10.(2) Table 9.32.3.10.-B
9.32.3.10.(1) A-3.2.4.22.(1)(b)
3.4.5.1.(2) 9.9.11.3.(2)
3.4.5.1.(2) A-3.4.5.1.(2)(c) 9.9.11.3.(2)
A-3.2.4.22.(1)(b)
A-3.2.4.22.(1)(b)
EPA 625/R-92/016 (1994)
FEMA 450-1-2003
FEMA P-750-2009
FPI Project 43-10C-024 (1988) FPI/RDH SP-53-2013
HC H46-2/90-156E HC 2007
HC R.S.C., 1985, c. H-3
HC Hazardous Products Act, Part II
HC SOR/2015-17
HC 2004
HC 2008
HC 2008
HPVA ANSI/HPVA HP-1-2009
HVI
HVI IEC
ISO ISO
ISO
ISO
HVI Publication 915-2013
HVI Publication 916-2013 60268-16:2011
3864-1:2011 7010:2011
7240-19:2007
7731:2003(E)
1-18 Division B Amended Page
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
   CWC
 2014
Engineering Guide for Wood Frame Construction
  9.4.1.1.(1) 9.23.13.1.(2) 9.23.13.2.(2) 9.23.13.3.(2) A-9.4.1.1. A-9.23.13.1.
            © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
1.3.1.2.
Issuing Agency
Document Number(2)
Table 1.3.1.2. (Continued)
Title of Document(3)
Acoustics – Audible emergency evacuation signal
Acoustics - Laboratory Measurement of the Flanking Transmission of Airborne and Impact Sound Between Adjoining Rooms
Building Acoustics - Estimation of Acoustic Performance of Buildings From the Performance of Elements - Part 1: Airborne Sound Insulation Between Rooms
Emergency Communications Audio Intelligibility Applications Guide Fire Protection Guide to Hazardous Materials
Fire Protection Handbook, Twentieth Edition
Installation of Sprinkler Systems
Code Reference
3.2.4.18.(2) A-3.2.4.18.(2)
5.8.1.4.(2) 5.8.1.4.(3) 5.8.1.5.(2) 5.8.1.5.(3)
5.8.1.4.(1) 5.8.1.4.(2) 5.8.1.4.(4) 5.8.1.4.(5) 5.8.1.4.(6) 5.8.1.5.(1) 5.8.1.5.(2) 5.8.1.5.(5) 5.8.1.5.(6)
A-3.2.4.22.(1)(b)
A-6.9.1.2.(1)
A-3.2.2.2.(1) A-3.6.2.7.(5)
3.1.9.1.(4) 3.1.11.5.(3) 3.2.4.8.(2) 3.2.4.15.(1) 3.2.5.12.(1) 3.3.2.14.(3) A-3.1.11.5.(3) A-3.2.4.9.(3)(f) A-3.2.5.12.(1) A-3.2.5.12.(6) A-3.2.5.13.(1) A-3.2.8.2.(3) 9.10.9.6.(11)
3.2.4.1.(2) 3.2.5.12.(3) A-3.2.5.12.(6) A-3.2.5.13.(1) 9.10.18.2.(3)
3.2.5.12.(2) A-3.2.5.12.(2) A-3.2.5.12.(6) A-3.2.5.13.(1)
3.2.5.9.(1) 3.2.5.10.(1)
3.2.4.9.(4) 3.2.5.18.(1) A-3.2.4.9.(3)(f)
A-6.9.1.2.(1) A-6.9.1.2.(1) A-6.9.1.2.(1) A-6.9.1.2.(1) A-6.9.1.2.(1)
A-6.9.1.2.(1) A-6.9.1.2.(1)
ISO 8201:1987(E) ISO 10848:2006
ISO 15712-1:2005
NEMA SB 50-2008 NFPA 2010 Edition NFPA 2008
NFPA 13-2013
NFPA 13D-2016
NFPA 13R-2013
NFPA 14-2013 NFPA 20-2016
NFPA 30-2012 NFPA 30A-2015 NFPA 32-2016 NFPA 33-2016 NFPA 34-2015
NFPA 35-2016 NFPA 36-2017
Installation of Sprinkler Systems in One- and Two-Family Dwellings and Manufactured Homes
Installation of Sprinkler Systems in Low-Rise Residential Occupancies
Installation of Standpipe and Hose Systems Installation of Stationary Pumps for Fire Protection
Flammable and Combustible Liquids Code
Motor Fuel Dispensing Facilities and Repair Garages
Drycleaning Plants
Spray Application Using Flammable or Combustible Materials
Dipping, Coating, and Printing Processes Using Flammable or Combustible Liquids
Manufacture of Organic Coatings Solvent Extraction Plants
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Amended Page Division B 1-19
                              © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 1.3.1.2.
Division B
Issuing Agency
Document Number(2)
Table 1.3.1.2. (Continued)
Title of Document(3)
Storage and Handling of Cellulose Nitrate Film Fire Protection for Laboratories Using Chemicals
Design and Installation of Oxygen-Fuel Gas Systems for Welding, Cutting, and Allied Processes
Acetylene Cylinder Charging Plants Compressed Gases and Cryogenic Fluids Code
Prevention of Fires and Dust Explosions in Agricultural and Food Processing Facilities
Explosion Protection by Deflagration Venting
Explosion Prevention Systems
National Fire Alarm and Signaling Code Fire Doors and Other Opening Protectives
Protection of Buildings from Exterior Fire Exposures
Incinerators and Waste and Linen Handling Systems and Equipment
Boiler and Combustion Systems Hazards Code
Ovens and Furnaces
Parking Structures
Exhaust Systems for Air Conveying of Vapors, Gases, Mists, and Noncombustible Particulate Solids
Standard for Smoke Control Systems
Ventilation Control and Fire Protection of Commercial Cooking Operations
Life Safety Code
Smoke Door Assemblies and Other Opening Protectives
Smoke and Heat Venting
Chimneys, Fireplaces, Vents, and Solid Fuel-Burning Appliances
Marinas and Boatyards
Construction and Fire Protection of Marine Terminals, Piers, and Wharves
Aircraft Hangars
Code Reference
A-6.9.1.2.(1)
3.1.8.8.(3) 6.3.4.3.(1)
A-6.9.1.2.(1)
A-6.9.1.2.(1) A-6.9.1.2.(1) A-6.9.1.2.(1)
3.3.6.4.(2) A-3.6.2.7.(5) A-6.9.1.2.(1)
A-3.6.2.7.(5) A-6.9.1.2.(1)
A-3.2.4.22.(1)(b)
3.1.8.5.(2) 3.1.8.12.(2) 3.1.8.16.(1) 3.1.9.1.(5) A-3.1.8.1.(2) A-3.2.8.2.(3) 9.10.9.6.(13) 9.10.13.1.(1)
A-3
6.2.2.1.(1) 9.10.10.5.(2)
A-6.9.1.2.(1)
A-6.9.1.2.(1)
A-6.9.1.2.(1)
6.3.4.3.(1) A-6.9.1.2.(1)
A-3.2.6.2.(3)
3.2.4.8.(2) 3.7.4.1.(1) A-3.3.1.2.(2) 6.3.1.7.(1) A-6.9.1.2.(1) A-9.10.1.4.(1)
3.3.2.1.(2) 3.3.2.1.(3) A-3.3.2.1.(2)
3.1.8.5.(3) 3.1.8.5.(7)
A-6.9.1.2.(1)
6.3.3.2.(2) 6.3.3.3.(1)
A-6.9.1.2.(1) A-6.9.1.2.(1)
A-6.9.1.2.(1)
NFPA 40-2016 NFPA 45-2011
NFPA 51-2018
NFPA 51A-2012 NFPA 55-2016 NFPA 61-2017
NFPA 68-2013
NFPA 69-2014
NFPA 72-2016 NFPA 80-2013
NFPA 80A-2012 NFPA 82-2014
NFPA 85-2015 NFPA 86-2015 NFPA 88A-2015 NFPA 91-2010
NFPA 92-2018 NFPA 96-2014
NFPA 101-2015
NFPA 105-2013
NFPA 204-2015 NFPA 211-2016
NFPA 303-2016 NFPA 307-2016
NFPA 409-2016
1-20 Division B Amended Page
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
             © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
1.3.1.2.
Issuing Agency
NFPA
NFPA NFPA
NFPA NFPA
NFPA NFPA
NLGA
NLGA
NLGA
NRC-IRC NRC-IRC NRC-IRC NRCA NRCA NRCan NRC Const.
NRC Const. NSF/ANSI NYCDH
OMMAH
SMACNA SMACNA SPRI
TC
TC
TIAC TPIC
TWC TWC
Document Number(2)
415-2016
484-2015 654-2013
655-2017 664-2012
701-2019 1710-2010
2014
SPS-1-2013
SPS-3-2013
CBD 222
CBD 231
1988
2005
2015
R.S.C., 1985, c. E-17 2005
RR-331-2013 41-2018 2008
2012
ANSI/SMACNA 006-2006 2012
ANSI/SPRI WD-1-2008 SOR/96-433 SOR/2016-95
2013 2014
1993 1995
Table 1.3.1.2. (Continued)
Title of Document(3)
Airport Terminal Buildings, Fueling Ramp Drainage, and Loading Walkways
Combustible Metals
Prevention of Fire and Dust Explosions from the Manufacturing, Processing, and Handling of Combustible Particulate Solids
Prevention of Sulfur Fires and Explosions
Prevention of Fires and Explosions in Wood Processing and Woodworking Facilities
Fire Tests for Flame-Resistant Textiles and Films
Organization and Deployment of Fire Suppression Operations, Emergency Medical Operations, and Special Operations to the Public by Career Fire Departments
Standard Grading Rules for Canadian Lumber
Fingerjoined Structural Lumber
Fingerjoined "Vertical Stud Use Only" Lumber
Airtight Houses and Carbon Monoxide Poisoning
Moisture Problems in Houses
Performance and Acceptability of Wood Floors – Forintek Studies
The NRCA Waterproofing Manual
The NRCA Roofing Manual: Membrane Roof Systems
Explosives Act
A Guide for the Wind Design of Mechanically Attached Flexible Membrane Roofs
Guide to Calculating Airborne Sound Transmission in Buildings Non-liquid Saturated Treatment Systems
Guidelines on Assessment and Remediation of Fungi in Indoor Environments
2012 Building Code Compendium, Volume 2, Supplementary Standard SB-7, Guards for Housing and Small Buildings
HVAC Duct Construction Standards – Metal and Flexible Architectural Sheet Metal Manual, Seventh Edition
Wind Design Standard Practice for Roofing Assemblies Canadian Aviation Regulations – Part III
Transportation of Dangerous Goods Regulations (TDGR)
Mechanical Insulation Best Practices Guide
Truss Design Procedures and Specifications for Light Metal Plate Connected Wood Trusses (Limit States Design)
Details of Air Barrier Systems for Houses High-Rise Residential Construction Guide
Code Reference
A-6.9.1.2.(1)
A-6.9.1.2.(1) A-6.9.1.2.(1)
A-6.9.1.2.(1) A-6.9.1.2.(1)
3.1.6.5.(1) A-3.2.3.1.(8)
9.3.2.1.(1) A-9.3.2.1.(1)
Table A-9.3.2.1.(1)-A A-Table 9.3.2.1. A-9.3.2.8.(1) A-9.23.10.4.(1)
Table 9.10.3.1.-A A-9.23.10.4.(1)
Table 9.10.3.1.-A A-9.23.10.4.(1)
A-9.33.1.1.(2) A-9.25.3.1.(1) A-9.23.4.2.(2) A-5.6.2.1. A-5.6.2.1. 3.3.6.2.(3) A-5.2.2.2.(4)
A-5.8.1.4. 9.31.4.1.(2)(e) A-5.5.1.1.
A-9.8.8.2.
9.33.6.5.(2)
A-5.6.2.1.
A-5.2.2.2.(4)
4.1.5.13.(1)
1.4.1.2.(1)(4) A-1.4.1.2.(1)(4) A-3.3.1.2.(1)
A-6.3.2.5. 9.23.14.11.(6)
Table A-9.25.5.1.(1) A-5.6.2.1.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Amended Page Division B 1-21
                      © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 1.3.1.2.
Division B
Issuing Agency
Document Number(2)
Table 1.3.1.2. (Continued)
Title of Document(3)
Fire Testing of Fire Extinguishing Systems for Protection of Commercial Cooking Equipment
Air Leakage Tests of Door Assemblies and Other Opening Protectives Fire Endurance Tests of Building Construction and Materials
Code Reference
6.9.1.3.(1)
3.1.8.4.(4)
3.1.5.7.(2) 3.1.5.14.(5) 3.1.5.14.(6) 3.1.5.15.(3) 3.1.5.15.(4) 3.1.7.1.(1) 3.1.11.7.(1) 3.2.3.8.(1) 3.2.6.5.(6) A-3.1.5.14.(5)(d) 9.10.16.3.(1) Table 9.10.3.1.-B
3.1.5.24.(1) 3.1.12.1.(1)
Table 9.23.17.2.-A 9.29.5.2.(1)
3.1.12.1.(2) 3.1.13.4.(1)
3.1.13.4.(1)
3.1.4.3.(2) 3.1.5.21.(2) 3.1.5.23.(2)
3.1.8.4.(1) 3.2.6.5.(3)
9.10.13.6.(1)
3.1.8.4.(1) 3.1.15.1.(1)
3.1.6.5.(1) 3.1.16.1.(1) 3.6.5.2.(2) 3.6.5.3.(1) 9.33.6.3.(1)
3.6.5.1.(2) 3.6.5.1.(5) 9.33.6.2.(2) 9.33.6.2.(4)
6.3.2.13.(1) 9.33.6.14.(1)
3.1.8.4.(1) A-3.2.6.6.(1)
3.1.8.4.(3) 6.3.2.7.(3)
3.6.4.3.(2) 9.10.13.14.(1)
9.10.13.2.(1) A-9.10.9.3.(2) A-9.10.13.2.(1)
1.4.1.2.(1)(4)
UL ANSI/UL 300-2005
UL ANSI/UL-1784-04 ULC CAN/ULC-S101-14
ULC CAN/ULC-S102-10
ULC CAN/ULC-S102.2-10
ULC CAN/ULC-S102.3-07 ULC CAN/ULC-S102.4-10
ULC CAN/ULC-S104-15 ULC CAN/ULC-S105-16
ULC CAN/ULC-S106-15 ULC CAN/ULC-S107-10 ULC CAN/ULC-S109-14
ULC CAN/ULC-S110-13
ULC CAN/ULC-S111-13 ULC CAN/ULC-S112-10 ULC CAN/ULC-S112.1-10 ULC CAN/ULC-S112.2-07 ULC CAN/ULC-S113-16
ULC CAN/ULC-S114-05
Test for Surface Burning Characteristics of Building Materials and Assemblies
Test for Surface Burning Characteristics of Flooring, Floor Coverings, and Miscellaneous Materials and Assemblies
Fire Test of Light Diffusers and Lenses
Test for Fire and Smoke Characteristics of Electrical Wiring, Cables and Non-Metallic Raceways
Fire Tests of Door Assemblies
Fire Door Frames Meeting the Performance Required by CAN/ULC-S104
Fire Tests of Window and Glass Block Assemblies Fire Tests of Roof Coverings
Flame Tests of Flame-Resistant Fabrics and Films
Test for Air Ducts
Fire Tests for Air Filter Units
Fire Test of Fire Damper Assemblies
Leakage Rated Dampers for Use in Smoke Control Systems
Fire Test of Ceiling Firestop Flap Assemblies
Wood Core Doors Meeting the Performance Required by CAN/ULC-S104 for Twenty Minute Fire Rated Closure Assemblies
Test for Determination of Non-Combustibility in Building Materials
1-22 Division B Amended Page
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
                        © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
1.3.1.2.
Issuing Agency
Document Number(2)
Table 1.3.1.2. (Continued)
Title of Document(3)
Fire Tests of Firestop Systems
Test for the Evaluation of Protective Coverings for Foamed Plastic Test for Fire Spread Under Roof-Deck Assemblies
Fire Test of Exterior Wall Assemblies
Test Method for the Determination of Combustibility Parameters of Building Materials Using an Oxygen Consumption Calorimeter (Cone Calorimeter)
Test for Fire Growth of Insulated Building Panels in a Full-Scale Room Configuration
Fire Test for Evaluation of Integrity of Electrical Power, Data and Optical Fibre Cables
Fire Tests for Non-Metallic Electrical and Optical Fibre Cable Raceway Systems
Burglary Resisting Glazing Material Fusible Links for Fire Protection Service Installation of Fire Alarm Systems
Visible Signaling Devices for Fire Alarm and Signaling Systems, Including Accessories
Smoke Alarms
Egress Door Securing and Releasing Devices Verification of Fire Alarm Systems
Residential Fire and Life Safety Warning Systems: Installation, Inspection, Testing and Maintenance
Installation of Smoke Alarms
Installation and Services for Fire Signal Receiving Centres and Systems
Code Reference
3.1.5.19.(3) 3.1.9.1.(1) 3.1.9.1.(2) 3.1.9.1.(3) 3.1.9.4.(1) 3.1.9.5.(4) 9.10.9.6.(2) 9.10.9.7.(3)
3.1.5.15.(2) A-3.1.5.14.(5)(d)
3.1.14.1.(1) 3.1.14.2.(1)
3.1.5.5.(1) 9.10.14.5.(2) 9.10.15.5.(2) 9.10.15.5.(3)
3.1.5.1.(2)
3.1.5.7.(1) 3.1.5.7.(3)
3.2.6.5.(6) 3.2.7.10.(2) 3.2.7.10.(3)
3.1.5.23.(1)
A-9.7.5.2.(1) 3.1.8.10.(2)
3.1.8.11.(3) 3.1.8.14.(3) 3.2.4.5.(1) 3.2.4.20.(8) 3.2.4.20.(13) A-3.2.4.5.(1) A-3.2.4.7.(4) A-3.2.4.18.(8) and (9) A-3.2.4.20.(8) 9.10.19.4.(3) 9.10.19.6.(2)
A-3.2.4.19.(2)
3.2.4.20.(2) 9.10.19.1.(1)
3.4.6.16.(8)
3.2.4.5.(2)
3.2.4.1.(2) 3.2.4.5.(3) 9.10.19.8.(1)
3.2.4.20.(11) 9.10.19.3.(2)
3.2.4.7.(4) A-3.2.4.7.(4)
ULC CAN/ULC-S115-11
ULC CAN/ULC-S124-06 ULC CAN/ULC-S126-14 ULC CAN/ULC-S134-13
ULC ULC-S135-04
ULC CAN/ULC-S138-06 ULC CAN/ULC-S139-12
ULC CAN/ULC-S143-14
ULC ULC-S332-93
ULC ULC-S505-1974 ULC CAN/ULC-S524-19
ULC CAN/ULC-S526-16 ULC CAN/ULC-S531-14
ULC CAN/ULC-S533-08 ULC CAN/ULC-S537-19 ULC CAN/ULC-S540-13
ULC CAN/ULC-S553-14 ULC CAN/ULC-S561-13
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Amended Page Division B 1-23
                  © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 1.3.1.2.
Division B
Issuing Agency
Document Number(2)
Table 1.3.1.2. (Continued)
Title of Document(3)
Photoluminescent and Self-Luminous Exit Signs and Path Marking Systems
Factory-Built Fireplaces
Fireplace Inserts
650°C Factory-Built Chimneys
Steel Liner Assemblies for Solid-Fuel Burning Masonry Fireplaces Thermal Insulation, Polystyrene Boards
Mineral Fibre Thermal Insulation for Buildings
Cellulose Fibre Insulation for Buildings
Thermal Insulation, Polyurethane and Polyisocyanurate, Boards, Faced
Thermal Insulation – Spray Applied Rigid Polyurethane Foam, Medium Density – Material Specification
Thermal Insulation – Spray Applied Rigid Polyurethane Foam, Medium Density – Application
Wood Fibre Insulating Boards for Buildings
Thermal Insulation – Bead-Applied One Component Polyurethane Air Sealant Foam, Part 1: Material Specification
Thermal Insulation – Bead-Applied Two Component Polyurethane Air Sealant Foam, Part 1: Material Specification
Exterior Insulation and Finish Systems (EIFS) - Materials and Systems
Exterior Insulation and Finish Systems (EIFS) - Installation of EIFS Components and Water Resistive Barrier
Exterior Insulation and Finish System (EIFS) - Design Application
Air Barrier Materials – Specification
Integrated Systems Testing of Fire Protection and Life Safety Systems
Combustible Piping for Sprinkler Systems Sprinkler-Protected Window Systems
Code Reference
3.4.5.1.(3) 3.4.5.1.(4) A-3.4.5.1.(4) 9.9.11.3.(3) 9.9.11.3.(4)
9.22.8.1.(1) 9.22.10.1.(1) 9.33.10.2.(1) 9.22.2.3.(1)
Table 5.9.1.1. 9.15.4.1.(1)
Table 9.23.17.2.-A 9.25.2.2.(1)
Table 5.9.1.1. A-5.9.1.1.(1) Table 9.23.17.2.-A 9.25.2.2.(1)
Table 5.9.1.1. 9.25.2.2.(1)
Table 5.9.1.1. Table 9.23.17.2.-A 9.25.2.2.(1)
Table 5.9.1.1. 9.25.2.2.(1)
Table 5.9.1.1. 9.25.2.5.(1)
Table 5.9.1.1. 9.23.16.7.(3) Table 9.23.17.2.-A 9.25.2.2.(1) 9.29.8.1.(1)
Table 5.9.1.1. Table 5.9.1.1.
5.9.4.1.(1) A-5.9.4.1.(1) 9.27.13.1.(1) 9.27.13.2.(1) A-9.27.13.2.(2)(a)
A-5.9.4.1.(1) 9.27.13.3.(1)
A-5.9.4.1.(1) 9.27.13.3.(1)
5.4.1.2.(1)
3.2.9.1.(1) A-3.2.9.1.(1) 9.10.1.2.(1)
3.2.5.13.(2) 3.2.5.13.(5)
3.1.7.6.(1)
ULC CAN/ULC-S572-17
ULC CAN/ULC-S610-M87 ULC ULC-S628-93
ULC CAN/ULC-S629-16 ULC CAN/ULC-S639-M87 ULC CAN/ULC-S701.1-17
ULC CAN/ULC-S702-14
ULC CAN/ULC-S703-09 ULC CAN/ULC-S704-11
ULC CAN/ULC-S705.1-15 ULC CAN/ULC-S705.2-05 ULC CAN/ULC-S706.1-16
ULC CAN/ULC-S710.1-11 ULC CAN/ULC-S711.1-11 ULC CAN/ULC-S716.1-12
ULC CAN/ULC-S716.2-12 ULC CAN/ULC-S716.3-12
ULC CAN/ULC-S741-08 ULC CAN/ULC-S1001-11
ULC ULC/ORD-C199P-2002 ULC ULC/ORD-C263.1-99
1-24 Division B Amended Page
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
                            © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
1.3.2.1.
Issuing Agency
Document Number(2)
Table 1.3.1.2. (Continued)
Title of Document(3)
Fire Testing of Restaurant Cooking Area Fire Extinguishing System Units
Standard Grading Rules Western Lumber Grading Rules
Code Reference
6.9.1.3.(1)
A-Table 9.3.2.1. A-Table 9.3.2.1.
ULC ULC/ORD-C1254.6-1995
WCLIB No. 17 (2004) WWPA 2011
Notes to Table 1.3.1.2.:
(1) See Table D-1.1.2. in Appendix D for the list of standards referenced therein.
(2) Some documents may have been reaffirmed or reapproved. Check with the applicable issuing agency for up-to-date information.
(3) Some titles have been abridged to omit superfluous wording.
(4) Code reference is in Division A.
(5) Notwithstanding the requirement stated in Article 4.3.1.1., Update 1 to CSA O86-14 is not permitted to be used in the application of
Subsection 4.1.8.
1.3.2. 1.3.2.1.
Organizations
Abbreviations of Proper Names
1) The abbreviations of proper names in this Code shall have the meanings assigned to them in this Article.
AAMA .............. AHRI ................
AISI ................... ANSI ................. ASCE ................ ASHRAE ..........
ASME ............... ASTM ............... AWPA ............... BNQ .................. CAN .................
CCBFC .............. CCME ............... CGSB ................
CHC .................. CISC .................. CMHC .............. CRCA ............... CSA ................... CWC ................. ECC ...................
Fenestration and Glazing Industry Alliance (formerly American Architectural Manufacturers Association) (www.fgiaonline.org)
Air-Conditioning, Heating and Refrigeration Institute (www.ahrinet.org)
American Iron and Steel Institute (www.steel.org)
American National Standards Institute (www.ansi.org)
American Society of Civil Engineers (www.asce.org)
American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air-Conditioning Engineers (www.ashrae.org)
American Society of Mechanical Engineers (www.asme.org) ASTM International (www.astm.org)
American Wood Protection Association (www.awpa.com) Bureau de normalisation du Québec (www.bnq.qc.ca/en)
National Standard of Canada designation (www.scc.ca) (The number or name following the CAN designation represents the agency under whose auspices the standard is issued.)
CAN3 designates CSA
CAN4 designates ULC
Canadian Commission on Building and Fire Codes (see NRC)
Canadian Council of Ministers of the Environment (www.ccme.ca)
Canadian General Standards Board (www.tpsgc-pwgsc.gc.ca/ongc-cgsb/index-eng.html
Canadian Hydronics Council (www.chchydro.com)
Canadian Institute of Steel Construction (www.cisc-icca.ca)
Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation (www.cmhc.ca) Canadian Roofing Contractors’ Association (www.roofingcanada.com) CSA Group (www.csagroup.org)
Canadian Wood Council (www.cwc.ca)
EIFS Council of Canada (www.eifscouncil.org)
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Amended Page Division B 1-25
     © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 1.3.2.1.
Division B
1-26 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
EPA ................... FEMA ............... FPI .....................
HC ..................... HPVA ...............
HRAI ................
HVI ................... IEC .................... ISO ....................
Environmental Protection Agency (U.S.) (www.epa.gov)
Federal Emergency Management Agency (U.S.) (www.fema.gov)
FPInnovations – Wood Products (formerly FCC – Forintek Canada Corporation) (www.fpinnovations.ca)
Health Canada (www.hc-sc.gc.ca)
Decorative Hardwoods Association (formerly Hardwood Plywood & Veneer Association) (www.decorativehardwoods.org)
Heating, Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Institute of Canada (www.hrai.ca)
Home Ventilating Institute (www.hvi.org)
International Electrotechnical Commission (www.iec.ch) International Organization for Standardization (www.iso.org)
NBC 1995 am. Quebec .. Quebec Construction Code, Chapter I – Building, and National Building Code of Canada 1995 (amended), National Building Code of
Canada 1995 (NRCC 38726), including the revisions of July 1998 and November 1999, and the Code national du bâtiment – Canada 1995 (CNRC 38726F), including the revisions of July 1998 and November 1999, published by the Canadian Commission on Building and Fire Codes of the National Research Council of Canada (O.C. 953-2000, 2000-07-26)
NBC 2005 am. Quebec .. Quebec Construction Code, Chapter I – Building, and National Building Code of Canada 2005 (amended), National Building Code of Canada 2005 (NRCC 47666) and Code national du bâtiment – Canada
2005 (CNRC 47666F) published by the Canadian Commission on Building and Fire Codes of the National Research Council of Canada (O.C. 293-2008, 2008-03-19)
NBC 2010 am. Quebec .. Quebec Construction Code, Chapter I – Building, and National Building Code of Canada 2010 (amended), National Building Code
NBC .................. NECB ................ NEMA .............. NFC .................. NFPA ................ NLGA ............... NPC .................. NRC .................. NRCA ............... NRCan .............. NRC Const. ......
NRC-IRC ..........
NSF ................... NYCDH ...........
of Canada 2010 (NRCC 53301) and Code national du bâtiment – Canada 2010 (CNRC 53301F) published on November 29th 2010 by the Canadian Commission on Building and Fire Codes of the National Research Council of Canada (O.C. 347-2015, 2015-04-15)
National Building Code of Canada 2015
National Energy Code of Canada for Buildings 2017
National Electrical Manufacturers Association (www.nema.org)
National Fire Code of Canada 2015
National Fire Protection Association (www.nfpa.org)
National Lumber Grades Authority (www.nlga.org)
National Plumbing Code of Canada 2015
National Research Council of Canada (nrc.canada.ca)
National Roofing Contractors Association (www.nrca.net)
Natural Resources Canada (www.nrcan.gc.ca)
NRC Construction (former name of the NRC Construction Research Centre) (www.nrc.gc.ca/construction)
National Research Council, Institute for Research in Construction (former name of the NRC Construction Research Centre) (www.nrc.gc.ca/construction)
NSF International (www.nsf.org)
New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene (www.nyc.gov/health)
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
1.3.2.1.
OMMAH .......... SEI ..................... SMACNA ........
SPRI .................. TC ..................... TIAC ................. TPIC .................. TWC .................
UL ..................... ULC .................. WCLIB ..............
WWPA .............
Ontario Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Housing (www.mah.gov.on.ca)
Structural Engineering Institute (www.asce.org/structural-engineering/ structural-engineering)
Sheet Metal and Air Conditioning Contractors’ National Association (www.smacna.org)
Single Ply Roofing Industry (www.spri.org)
Transport Canada (tc.canada.ca)
Thermal Insulation Association of Canada (www.tiac.ca)
Truss Plate Institute of Canada (www.tpic.ca)
Tarion Warranty Corporation (formerly Ontario New Home Warranty Program) (www.tarion.com)
Underwriters’ Laboratories Inc. (www.ul.com) ULC Standards (canada.ul.com/ulcstandards)
Pacific Lumber Inspection Bureau (formerly West Coast Lumber Inspection Bureau) (www.plib.org)
Western Wood Products Association (www.wwpa.org)
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division B 1-27
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022
1-28 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1

 Division B
Notes to Part 1 General
A-1.1.2.1.(1) Objectives and Functional Statements Attributed to Acceptable Solutions. The objectives and functional statements attributed to each Code provision are listed in a table following the provisions in each Part.
Many provisions in Division B serve as modifiers of or pointers to other provisions, or serve other clarification or explanatory purposes. In most cases, no objectives and functional statements have been attributed to such provisions, which therefore do not appear in the above-mentioned tables.
For provisions that serve as modifiers of or pointers to other referenced provisions and that do not have any objectives and functional statements attributed to them, the objectives and functional statements that should be used are those attributed to the provisions they reference.
A-1.1.3.1.(1) Climatic and Seismic Values. Climatic values for municipalities not listed in Appendix C may be obtained by contacting the Meteorological Service of Canada, Environment Canada, 4905 Dufferin Street, Toronto, Ontario M3H 5T4; www.climate.weather.gc.ca.
Seismic values for municipalities not listed in Appendix C can be obtained at www.earthquakescanada.nr- can.gc.ca or by writing to the Geological Survey of Canada at 7 Observatory Crescent, Ottawa, Ontario K1A 0Y3, or at P.O. Box 6000, Sidney, B.C. V8L 4B2.
A-1.1.3.1.(2) Winter Design Temperatures. The 2.5% values referred to in Sentence 1.1.3.1.(2) are the least restrictive temperatures that can be used. A designer may choose to use the 1% values given in Appendix C, which are in excess of the Code minimums but are considered acceptable.
These Notes are included for explanatory purposes only and do not form part of the requirements. The number that introduces each Note corresponds to the applicable requirement in this Part.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 1-29
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022
1-30 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1

 Division B
Part 2 Reserved
.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 2-1
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022
2-2 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1

 Division B
Part 3
Fire Protection, Occupant Safety and Accessibility
3.1. General
3.1.1. Scope and Definitions ..................... 3-1
3.1.2. Classification of Buildings or
Parts of Buildings by Major
Occupancy ........................................ 3-1
3.1.3. Multiple Occupancy
Requirements ................................... 3-3
3.1.4. Combustible Construction .............. 3-4
3.1.5. Noncombustible Construction ........ 3-8
3.1.6. Tents and Air-Supported
Structures ....................................... 3-18
3.1.7. Fire-Resistance Ratings ................ 3-19
3.1.8. Fire Separations and Closures ..... 3-20
3.1.9. Penetrations in Fire Separations
and Fire-Rated Assemblies ........... 3-27
3.1.10. Firewalls .......................................... 3-30
3.1.11. Fire Blocks in Concealed
Spaces ............................................. 3-31
3.1.12. Flame-Spread Rating and
Smoke Developed Classification .. 3-33
3.1.13. Interior Finish ................................. 3-34
3.1.14. Roof Assemblies ............................ 3-37
3.1.15. Roof Covering ................................. 3-37
3.1.16. Fabrics ............................................ 3-38
3.1.17. Occupant Load ............................... 3-38
3.2. Building Fire Safety
3.2.1. General ............................................ 3-40
3.2.2. Building Size and Construction
Relative to Occupancy ................... 3-42
3.2.3. Spatial Separation and
Exposure Protection ...................... 3-72
3.2.4. Fire Alarm and Detection
Systems ........................................... 3-86
3.2.5. Provisions for Firefighting ............. 3-98
3.2.6. Additional Requirements for
High Buildings .............................. 3-103
3.2.7. Lighting and Emergency Power
Systems ......................................... 3-107
3.2.8. Mezzanines and Openings
through Floor Assemblies ........... 3-110
3.2.9. Integrated Fire Protection and
Life Safety Systems ..................... 3-112
3.3. Safety within Floor Areas
3.3.1. All Floor Areas .............................. 3-113
3.3.2. Assembly Occupancy .................. 3-122
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.3.3. Care, Treatment or Detention Occupancies ................................. 3-128
3.3.4. Residential Occupancy ................ 3-131
3.3.5. Industrial Occupancy ................... 3-133
3.3.6. Design of Hazardous Areas ........ 3-135
3.3.7. Business Occupancies ................ 3-137
3.4. Exits
3.4.1. General .......................................... 3-137
3.4.2. Number and Location of Exits
from Floor Areas .......................... 3-139
3.4.3. Width and Height of Exits ............ 3-142
3.4.4. Fire Separation of Exits ............... 3-144
3.4.5. Exit Signs ...................................... 3-145
3.4.6. Types of Exit Facilities ................. 3-146
3.4.7. Fire Escapes ................................. 3-155
3.5. Vertical Transportation
3.5.1. General .......................................... 3-156
3.5.2. Standards ...................................... 3-156
3.5.3. Fire Separations ........................... 3-157
3.5.4. Dimensions and Signs ................. 3-158
3.5.5. Window-Cleaning Systems ......... 3-158
3.6. Service Facilities
3.6.1. General .......................................... 3-158
3.6.2. Service Rooms ............................. 3-159
3.6.3. Vertical Service Spaces and
Service Facilities .......................... 3-161
3.6.4. Horizontal Service Spaces and
Service Facilities .......................... 3-163
3.6.5. Air Duct and Plenum Systems .... 3-164
3.7. Health Requirements
3.7.1. Height of Rooms .......................... 3-167
3.7.2. Plumbing Facilities ...................... 3-168
3.7.3. Medical Gas Piping Systems ....... 3-171
3.7.4. Windows ....................................... 3-172
3.8. Accessibility
3.8.1. Scope ............................................ 3-172
3.8.2. Application .................................... 3-172
3.8.3. Design ........................................... 3-176
3.8.4. Minimally Accessible Dwelling
Unit of Residential Occupancy ... 3-185
3.8.5. Adaptable Dwelling Unit of
Residential Occupancy ................ 3-187
3.8.6. Hotels and Motels ........................ 3-189
3.9. Self-service Storage Buildings
3.9.1. General .......................................... 3-189
3.9.2. Building Fire Safety ...................... 3-190
3.9.3. Floor Areas ................................... 3-190
3.10. Objectives and Functional Statements
3.10.1. Objectives and Functional
Statements .................................... 3-191
Notes to Part 3 .............. 3-225
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division B
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
Part 3
Fire Protection, Occupant Safety and
Accessibility
(See Note A-3.)
Section 3.1. General
3.1.1. 3.1.1.1.
3.1.1.2.
3.1.1.3.
3.1.1.4.
3.1.2.
3.1.2.1.
Scope and Definitions Scope
1) The scope of this Part shall be as described in Subsection 1.3.3. of Division A. Defined Words
1) Words that appear in italics are defined in Article 1.4.1.2. of Division A. Use of Term Storage Tank
1) For the purposes of this Part, the term “storage tank” shall mean a vessel for flammable liquids or combustible liquids having a capacity of more than 230 L and designed to be installed in a fixed location.
Fire Protection Information
1) Information to be submitted regarding major components of fire protection
shall conform to the requirements of Subsection 2.2.3. of Division C.
Classification of Buildings or Parts of Buildings by Major Occupancy
(See Note A-3.1.2.)
Classification of Buildings
1) Except as permitted by Articles 3.1.2.3. and 3.1.2.4., every building or part thereof shall be classified according to its major occupancy as belonging to one of the Groups or Divisions described in Table 3.1.2.1. (See Note A-3.1.2.1.(1).)
2) A building intended for use by more than one major occupancy shall be classified according to all major occupancies for which it is used or intended to be used.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 3-1
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.1.2.2.
Division B
3.1.2.2.
3.1.2.3.
3.1.2.4.
3.1.2.5. 3.1.2.6.
3.1.2.7.
Occupancies of Same Classification
1) Any building is deemed to be occupied by a single major occupancy, notwithstanding its use for more than one major occupancy, provided that all occupancies are classified as belonging to the same Group classification or, where the Group is divided into Divisions, as belonging to the same Division classification described in Table 3.1.2.1.
Arena-Type Buildings
1) An arena-type building intended for occasional use for trade shows and similar exhibition purposes shall be classified as a Group A, Division 3 occupancy. (See Note A-3.1.2.3.(1).)
Police Stations
1) A police station with detention quarters is permitted to be classified as a Group B, Division 2 major occupancy provided the station is not more than 1 storey in building height and 600 m2 in building area.
Deleted
Storage of Combustible Fibres
1) Buildings or parts thereof used for the storage of baled combustible fibres shall be classified as medium-hazard industrial occupancies.
Ambulatory Clinic Occupancy
1) Despite the provisions on treatment occupancies and except as permitted by Sentences (2) to (6), an ambulatory clinic occupancy is permitted to be built in compliance with the business and personal services occupancy requirements.
2) The floor area of a building of combustible construction containing an ambulatory clinic occupancy shall be sprinklered if the ambulatory clinic occupancy is located above the first storey or in the basement.
Group Division
A 1 A 2 A 3 A 4 B 1 B 2 B 3 C — D — E — F 1 F 2 F 3
Table 3.1.2.1.
Major Occupancy Classification
Forming Part of Sentences 3.1.2.1.(1) and 3.1.2.2.(1)
Description of Major Occupancies
Assembly occupancies intended for the production and viewing of the performing arts Assembly occupancies not elsewhere classified in Group A
Assembly occupancies of the arena type
Assembly occupancies in which occupants are gathered in the open air
Detention occupancies
Treatment occupancies
Care occupancies
Residential occupancies
Business and personal services occupancies Mercantile occupancies
High-hazard industrial occupancies Medium-hazard industrial occupancies Low-hazard industrial occupancies
3-2 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
    © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 3.1.3.1.
3.1.3. 3.1.3.1.
3) The floor area of a building of noncombustible construction containing an ambulatory clinic occupancy shall be sprinklered if
a) the ambulatory clinic occupancy is located above the first storey and the floor of the storey on which the ambulatory clinic occupancy is located forms a fire separation with no fire-resistance rating,
b) the ambulatory clinic occupancy is located above the second storey and the floor of the storey on which the ambulatory clinic occupancy is located forms a fire separation with a fire-resistance rating not more than 1 h, or
c) the ambulatory clinic occupancy is located in the basement.
4) The ambulatory clinic occupancy shall meet the requirements of Subsection 3.3.3.
5) The treatment area of an ambulatory clinic occupancy, which includes the
operating, treatment or recovery rooms, shall be separated from the remainder of the floor area by a fire separation having a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h such that it forms one or more fire compartments having an area not exceeding
a) 250 m2 if the floor area is not sprinklered,
b) 500 m2 if the floor area is sprinklered, or
c) 1 000 m2 if the floor area is sprinklered and has a smoke-control system in conformance with Clause 3.3.3.6.(1)(b).
6) Except as provided by Sentence (7), a treatment area contained within an ambulatory clinic occupancy shall provide direct access to at least one exit.
7) An ambulatory clinic occupancy whose treatment area provides direct access to a public corridor meets the requirements of Sentence (6) if
a) the part of the public corridor providing access to the exit is separated from the remainder of the floor area by fire separations having a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h, or
b) the floor area of the ambulatory clinic occupancy is sprinklered.
Multiple Occupancy Requirements
Separation of Major Occupancies
1) Except as permitted by Sentences (2) and (3), major occupancies shall be separated from adjoining major occupancies by fire separations having fire-resistance ratings conforming to Table 3.1.3.1.
2) In a building not more than 3 storeys in building height, if not more than 2 dwelling units are contained together with a Group E major occupancy, the fire-resistance rating of the fire separation between the 2 major occupancies need not be more than 1 h.
3) In a building conforming to the requirements of Articles 3.2.8.2. to 3.2.8.8., the requirements of Sentence (1) for fire separations between major occupancies do not apply at the vertical plane around the perimeter of an opening through the horizontal fire separation.
Table 3.1.3.1.
Major Occupancy Fire Separations(1) Forming Part of Sentence 3.1.3.1.(1)
Minimum Fire-Resistance Rating of Fire Separation, h
Adjoining Major Occupancy
A-1 A-2 A-3 A-4 B-1 B-2 B-3 C D E F-1 F-2 F-3
Major Occupancy
A-1 A-2 A-3 A-4 B-1 B-2
— 1 1 1 2 2 2 1 1 2 (2) 1 — 1 1 2 2 2 1(3) 1(4) 2 (2)
21 2 1 21 21 22 22
11—12221 111—2221 2222—222 22222—12
12(2) 12(2) 22(2) 22(2)
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division B 3-3
      © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.1.3.2.
Division B
Major Occupancy
B-3
C
D
Table 3.1.3.1. (Continued)
Minimum Fire-Resistance Rating of Fire Separation, h
Adjoining Major Occupancy
A-1 A-2 A-3 A-4 B-1 B-2 B-3 C D E F-1 F-2 F-3
2 2 2 2 2 1 — 1 2 2 (2) 2 2 1 1(3) 1 1 2 2 1 — 1 2(5) (2) 2(6) 1
1 1(4) 1 1 2 2 2 1 — (7) 3 — — 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2(5) (7) — 3 — —
E
F-1 (2) (2) (2) (2) (2) (2) (2) (2) 33—22
F-2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2(6) — — 2 — — F-3 11112221——2——
Notes to Table 3.1.3.1.:
(1) Section 3.3. contains requirements for the separation of occupancies and tenancies that are in addition to the requirements for the separation of major occupancies.
(2) See Sentence 3.1.3.2.(1).
(3) Where the building is constructed in accordance with Article 3.2.2.50., a fire separation with a 1 h 30 fire-resistance rating is required between the
Group C and Group A, Division 2 major occupancies.
(4) Where the building is constructed in accordance with Article 3.2.2.58., a fire separation with a 1 h 30 fire-resistance rating is required between the
Group D and Group A, Division 2 major occupancies.
(5) See Sentence 3.1.3.1.(2).
(6) See Sentence 3.1.3.2.(2).
(7) In the case of buildings built in conformance with Article 3.2.2.50. or 3.2.2.58., a fire separation with a 1 h 30 fire-resistance rating is required
between the Group D and Group E major occupancies.
3.1.3.2.
Prohibition of Occupancy Combinations
1) No major occupancy of Group F, Division 1 shall be contained within a building
with any occupancy classified as Group A, B or C.
2) Not more than one suite of residential occupancy shall be contained within a
building classified as a Group F, Division 2 major occupancy.
3) A building conforming to Article 3.2.2.50. shall not contain
a) except as provided in Sentence (5), a Group A, Division 1 or 3 or Group B,
major occupancy, an ambulatory clinic occupancy referred to in Article 3.1.2.7.,
or Group F, Division 2 or 3 major occupancy, or
b) a Group A, Division 2 or Group E major occupancy above the second storey.
4) A building conforming to Article 3.2.2.58. shall not contain
a) except as provided in Sentence (5), a Group A, Division 1 or 3, or Group B
major occupancy, an ambulatory clinic occupancy referred to in Article 3.1.2.7.,
or Group F major occupancy, or
b) a Group A, Division 2 or Group E major occupancy above the second storey.
5) A building conforming to Article 3.2.2.50. or 3.2.2.58. is permitted to contain a storage garage below the fourth storey.
Combustible Construction Combustible Materials Permitted
1) Except as required by Sentence (3), a building permitted to be of combustible construction is permitted to be constructed of combustible materials, with or without noncombustible components. (See Note A-3.1.4.1.(1).)
2) The flame-spread rating on any exposed surface of foamed plastic insulation, and on any surface that would be exposed by cutting through the insulation in any direction, shall be not more than 500.
3.1.4. 3.1.4.1.
3-4 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
        © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 3.1.4.3.
3.1.4.2.
3) The exit stairwells of a building conforming to Article 3.2.2.50. or 3.2.2.58. shall be of noncombustible construction.
Protection of Foamed Plastics
(See Note A-3.1.4.2.)
1) Except as permitted in Sentence (2), foamed plastics that form part of a wall or ceiling assembly in combustible construction shall be protected from adjacent spaces in the building, other than adjacent concealed spaces within attic or roof spaces, crawl spaces, and wall and ceiling assemblies,
a) by one of the interior finishes described in Subsections 9.29.4. to 9.29.9., b) provided the building does not contain a Group A, Group B or Group C
major occupancy, by sheet metal
i) mechanically fastened to the supporting assembly
independent of the insulation,
ii) not less than 0.38 mm thick, and
iii) withameltingpointnotbelow650°C,or
c) by any thermal barrier that meets the requirements of Sentence 3.1.5.15.(2)
(see Note A-3.1.4.2.(1)(c)).
2) A walk-in cooler or freezer consisting of factory-assembled wall, floor or ceiling panels containing foamed plastics is permitted in a building required to be of combustible construction, provided the panels
a) are protected on both sides by sheet metal not less than 0.38 mm thick having a melting point not less than 650°C,
b) do not contain an air space, and
c) when a sample panel with an assembled joint typical of field installation
is subjected to the applicable test described in Subsection 3.1.12., have a flame-spread rating not more than that permitted for the space in which they are located or the space that they bound, as applicable.
(See Note A-3.1.4.2.(2) and 3.1.5.7.(3).)
3) The flame-spread rating of doors containing foamed plastics shall comply with Sentences 3.1.13.2.(1) to (3).
Wires and Cables
1) Except as required by Sentence (2), optical fibre cables and electrical wires and cables with combustible insulation, jackets or sheathes that are installed in a building permitted to be of combustible construction shall
a) not convey flame or continue to burn for more than 1 min when tested in conformance with the Vertical Flame Test (FT1 rating) in CSA C22.2 No. 0.3, “Test Methods for Electrical Wires and Cables,” or
b) be located in
i) totally enclosed noncombustible raceways (see
Note A-3.1.4.3.(1)(b)(i)),
ii) masonry walls,
iii) concrete slabs, or
iv) totally enclosed non-metallic raceways conforming to
Clause 3.1.5.23.(1)(b).
(See Note A-3.1.4.3.(1).)
(See also Sentence 3.6.4.3.(1).)
2) Except as permitted in Sentences (3) and (4), optical fibre cables and electrical wires and cables with combustible insulation, jackets or sheathes that are used for
the transmission of voice, sound or data and are installed in a plenum in a building permitted to be of combustible construction shall exhibit the following characteristics when tested in conformance with CAN/ULC-S102.4, “Test for Fire and Smoke Characteristics of Electrical Wiring, Cables and Non-Metallic Raceways,” (FT6 rating):
a) a horizontal flame distance of not more than 1.5 m,
b) an average optical smoke density of not more than 0.15, and
c) a peak optical smoke density of not more than 0.5.
3.1.4.3.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 3-5
  © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.1.4.4.
Division B
3.1.4.4.
3.1.4.5.
3.1.4.6.
3.1.4.7.
3) Except as permitted in Sentence (4), where totally enclosed noncombustible raceways are used in a plenum, exposed components of wiring systems with combustible insulation, jackets or sheathes, including optical fibre cables and electrical wires and cables that are used for the transmission of voice, sound or data, that are installed in the plenum or that extend not more than 9 m from the plenum, including drop down to the floor level, are permitted, provided they exhibit a vertical char of not more than 1.5 m when tested in conformance with the Vertical Flame Test – Cables in Cable Trays (FT4 rating) in CSA C22.2 No. 0.3, “Test Methods for Electrical Wires and Cables.”
4) Cables or wires within plenums that are used for the transmission of signals in fire alarm systems need not comply with the requirements of Sentence (2).
Non-metallic Raceways
1) Totally enclosed non-metallic raceways used in a plenum in a building permitted
to be of combustible construction shall meet the requirements of Clause 3.1.5.23.(1)(a). Fire-Retardant-Treated Wood
1) If fire-retardant-treated wood is specified in this Part, the wood shall
a) be pressure impregnated with fire-retardant chemicals in conformance with
CAN/CSA-O80 Series, “Wood Preservation,” and
b) have a flame-spread rating not more than 25.
Heavy Timber Construction Alternative
1) If combustible construction is permitted and is not required to have a fire-resistance
rating more than 45 min, heavy timber construction is permitted to be used.
2) If heavy timber construction is permitted, it shall conform to Article 3.1.4.7.
Heavy Timber Construction
1) Wood elements in heavy timber construction shall be arranged in heavy solid masses and with essentially smooth flat surfaces to avoid thin sections and sharp projections.
2) Except as permitted by Sentences (3) to (6) and (12), the minimum dimensions of wood elements in heavy timber construction shall conform to Table 3.1.4.7.
Supported Assembly
Roofs only
Floors,
floors plus roofs
Solid Sawn (width x depth), mm x mm
140 x 191 89 x 140 89 x 140 140 x 140 191 x 191 140 x 241 or 191 x 191
Glued-Laminated (width x depth),
Round
3-6 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Structural Element
Columns
Arches supported on the tops of walls or abutments Beams, girders and trusses
Arches supported at or near the floor line
Columns
Beams, girders, trusses and arches
(diam), mm x mm mm
Table 3.1.4.7.
Heavy Timber Dimensions Forming Part of Sentence 3.1.4.7.(2)
3) Where splice plates are used at splices of roof arches supported on the tops of walls or abutments, roof trusses, roof beams and roof girders in heavy timber construction, they shall be not less than 64 mm thick.
130 x 190 180 80 x 152 — 80 x 152 — 130 x 152 — 175 x 190 200
130 x 228 or — 175 x 190
         © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 3.1.4.8.
3.1.4.8.
4) Floors in heavy timber construction shall be of glued-laminated or solid sawn plank not less than
a) 64 mm thick, splined or tongued and grooved, or
b) 38 mm wide and 89 mm deep set on edge and well spiked together.
5) Floors in heavy timber construction shall be laid
a) so that no continuous line of end joints will occur except at points of
support, and covered with
i) tongued and grooved flooring not less than 19 mm thick
laid crosswise or diagonally, or
ii) tongued and grooved phenolic-bonded plywood,
strandboard or waferboard not less than 12.5 mm thick, and
b) not closer than 15 mm to the walls to provide for expansion, with the gap
covered at the top or bottom.
6) Roofs in heavy timber construction shall be of tongued and grooved phenolic-bonded plywood, strandboard or waferboard not less than 28 mm thick, or glued-laminated or solid sawn plank that is
a) not less than 38 mm thick, splined or tongued and grooved, or
b) not less than 38 mm wide and 64 mm deep set on edge and laid so that no
continuous line of end joints will occur except at the points of support.
7) Wood columns in heavy timber construction shall be continuous or superimposed
throughout all storeys.
8) Superimposed wood columns in heavy timber construction shall be connected by
a) reinforced concrete or metal caps with brackets,
b) steel or iron caps with pintles and base plates, or
c) timber splice plates fastened to the columns by metal connectors housed
within the contact faces.
9) Where beams and girders in heavy timber construction enter masonry, wall plates, boxes of the self-releasing type or hangers shall be used.
10) Wood girders and beams in heavy timber construction shall be closely fitted to columns, and adjoining ends shall be connected by ties or caps to transfer horizontal loads across the joints.
11) In heavy timber construction, intermediate wood beams used to support a floor shall be supported on top of the girders or on metal hangers into which the ends of the beams are closely fitted.
12) Roof arches supported on the top of walls or abutments, roof trusses, roof beams and roof girders in heavy timber construction are permitted to be not less than 64 mm wide provided
a) where two or more spaced members are used, the intervening spaces are i) blocked solidly throughout, or
ii) tightly closed by a continuous wood cover plate not less than 38 mm thick secured to the underside of the members, or
b) the underneath of the roof deck or sheathing is sprinklered.
Combustible Terrace
1) A terrace constructed on a building conforming to Article 3.2.2.50. or 3.2.2.58. may have combustible loadbearing elements and floor provided
a) the space between the underside of the terrace floor and the roofing is not more than 150 mm,
b) the floor of the terrace is not more than 18 m above grade, and
c) no combustible component is more than 25 m above grade.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division B 3-7
  © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.1.5.1.
Division B
3.1.5. 3.1.5.1.
Noncombustible Construction Noncombustible Materials
(See Note A-3.1.4.1.(1).)
1) Except as permitted by Sentences (2) to (4) and Articles 3.1.5.2. to 3.1.5.24., 3.1.13.4. and 3.2.2.16., a building or part of a building required to be of noncombustible construction shall be constructed with noncombustible materials. (See also Subsection 3.1.13. for the requirements regarding the flame-spread rating of interior finishes.)
2) Notwithstanding the definition of noncombustible materials stated in
Article 1.4.1.2. of Division A, a material is permitted to be used in noncombustible construction provided that, when tested in accordance with ULC-S135, “Test Method for the Determination of Combustibility Parameters of Building Materials Using an Oxygen Consumption Calorimeter (Cone Calorimeter),” at a heat flux of 50 kW/m2,
a) its average total heat release is not more than 3 MJ/m2,
b) its average total smoke extinction area is not more than 1.0 m2, and
c) the test duration is extended beyond the time stipulated in the referenced standard until it is clear that there is no further release of heat or smoke.
3) If a material referred to in Sentence (2) consists of a number of discrete layers and testing reveals that the surface layer or layers protect the underlying layers such that complete combustion of the underlying layers does not occur, the test shall be repeated by removing the outer layers sequentially until all layers have been exposed during testing, or until complete combustion has occurred.
4) The acceptance criteria for a material tested in accordance with Sentence (3) shall be based on the cumulative emissions from all layers, which must not exceed the criteria stated in Clauses (2)(a) and (b).
Minor Combustible Components
1) The following minor combustible components are permitted in a building required to be of noncombustible construction:
a) paint (see also Clause 3.1.13.1.(2)(b)),
b) self-adhesive tapes, mastics and caulking materials, including foamed
plastic air sealants, applied to provide a seal between the major components of exterior wall construction, (see also Article 3.6.4.3. for limits on the use of combustible materials in plenum spaces),
c) fire stops and fire blocks conforming to Sentence 3.1.9.1.(1) and Article 3.1.11.7.,
d) tubing for pneumatic controls provided it has an outside diameter of not more than 10 mm,
e) adhesives, vapour barriers and sheathing papers,
f) electrical outlet and junction boxes,
g) wood blocking within wall assemblies intended for the attachment of window components,
h) wood blocking within wall assemblies intended for the attachment of handrails, fixtures, and similar items mounted on the surface of the wall, and
i) similar minor components.
Combustible Roofing Materials
1) Combustible roof covering that has an A, B, or C classification determined in conformance with Subsection 3.1.15. is permitted on a building required to be of noncombustible construction.
2) Combustible roof sheathing and roof sheathing supports installed above a concrete deck are permitted on a building required to be of noncombustible construction provided
a) the concrete deck is not less than 50 mm thick,
b) the height of the roof space above the deck is not more than 1 m,
c) the roof space is divided into compartments by fire blocks in conformance with Article 3.1.11.5.,
3.1.5.2.
3.1.5.3.
3-8 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
3.1.5.4.
3.1.5.4.
d)
e) f)
openings through the concrete deck other than for noncombustible roof drains and plumbing piping are protected by masonry or concrete shafts
i) constructedasfireseparationshavingafire-resistancerating not less than 1 h, and
ii) extendingfromtheconcretedecktonotlessthan150mm above the adjacent roof sheathing,
the perimeter of the roof is protected by a noncombustible parapet extending from the concrete deck to not less than 150 mm above the adjacent sheathing, and
except as permitted by Clause (d), the roof space does not contain any building services.
Combustible cant strips, roof curbs, nailing strips and similar components used in the installation of roofing are permitted on a building required to be of noncombustible construction.
4) Wood nailer facings to parapets, not more than 600 mm high, are permitted on a building required to be of noncombustible construction, if the facings and any roof membranes covering the facings are protected by sheet metal.
Combustible Glazing and Skylights
1) Combustible skylight assemblies are permitted in a building required to be of noncombustible construction if the assemblies have a flame-spread rating not more than
a) 150 provided the assemblies
i) haveanindividualareanotmorethan9m2,
ii) haveanaggregatehorizontalprojectedareaoftheopenings through the ceiling not more than 25% of the area of the ceiling of the room or space in which they are located, and
iii) arespacednotlessthan2.5mfromadjacentassembliesand from required fire separations, or
b) 75 provided the assemblies
i) haveanindividualareanotmorethan27m2,
ii) haveanaggregatehorizontalprojectedareaoftheopenings through the ceiling not more than 33% of the area of the ceiling of the room or space in which they are located, and
iii) arespacednotlessthan1.2mfromadjacentassembliesand from required fire separations.
(See Note A-3.1.5.4.(1).)
2) Combustible vertical glazing installed no higher than the second storey is
permitted in a building required to be of noncombustible construction.
3) Except as permitted by Sentence (4), the combustible vertical glazing permitted
by Sentence (2) shall have a flame-spread rating not more than 75.
4) The flame-spread rating of combustible glazing is permitted to be not more than 150 if the aggregate area of glazing is not more than 25% of the wall area of the storey in which it is located, and
a) the glazing is installed in a building not more than 1 storey in building height,
b) the glazing in the first storey is separated from the glazing in the second
storey in accordance with the requirements of Article 3.2.3.17. for opening
protection, or
c) the building is sprinklered throughout.
5) Combustible window sashes and frames are permitted in a building required to be of noncombustible construction provided
a) each window in an exterior wall face is an individual unit separated by noncombustible wall construction from every other opening in the wall,
b) windows in exterior walls in contiguous storeys are separated by not less than 1 m of noncombustible construction, and
c) the aggregate area of openings in an exterior wall face of a fire compartment is not more than 40% of the area of the wall face.
3)
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division B 3-9
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.1.5.5.
Division B
3.1.5.5.
Combustible Cladding on Exterior Walls
1) Except as provided in Sentences (2) and (3), combustible cladding is permitted to be used on an exterior wall assembly in a building required to be of noncombustible construction, provided
a) the building is
i) notmorethan3storeysinbuildingheight,or
ii) sprinklered throughout, and
b) when tested in accordance with CAN/ULC-S134, “Fire Test of Exterior Wall
Assemblies,” the wall assembly satisfies the following criteria for testing and conditions of acceptance (see Note A-3.1.5.5.(1)(b)):
i) flaming on or in the wall assembly does not spread more than 5 m above the opening (see Note A-3.1.5.5.(1)(b)(i)), and
ii) the heat flux during the flame exposure on the wall assembly is not more than 35 kW/m 2 measured at 3.5 m above the opening (see Note A-3.1.5.5.(1)(b)(ii)).
2) Except as permitted by Articles 3.2.3.10. and 3.2.3.11., where the limiting distance in Tables 3.2.3.1.-B to 3.2.3.1.-E permits an area of unprotected openings of not more than 10% of the exposing building face, the construction requirements of Table 3.2.3.7. shall be met.
3) A wall assembly permitted by Sentence (1) that includes combustible cladding of fire-retardant-treated wood shall be tested for fire exposure after the cladding has been subjected to an accelerated weathering test as specified in ASTM D 2898, “Accelerated Weathering of Fire-Retardant-Treated Wood for Fire Testing.”
Combustible Components in Exterior Walls
1) Combustible components, other than those permitted by Article 3.1.5.5., are permitted to be used in an exterior wall assembly of a building required to be of noncombustible construction, provided
a) the building is
i) notmorethan3storeysinbuildingheight,or
ii) sprinklered throughout, and
b) the wall assembly
i) meets the requirements of Clause 3.1.5.5.(1)(b), or
ii) isprotectedbymasonryorconcretecladdingnotlessthan
25 mm thick (see Note A-3.1.5.5.(1)(b)).
Factory-Assembled Panels
1) Except as provided in Sentence (2), factory-assembled wall and ceiling panels containing foamed plastic insulation with a flame-spread rating not more than 500 are permitted to be used in a building required to be of noncombustible construction, provided
3.1.5.6.
3.1.5.7.
3-10 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
a)
b)
the building
i) is sprinklered,
ii) is not more than 18 m high, measured from grade to the underside of the roof, and
iii) does not contain a Group A, Group B, or Group C major occupancy, and
the panels
i) do not contain an air space,
ii) whentestedinaccordancewithCAN/ULC-S138,“Testfor Fire Growth of Insulated Building Panels in a Full-Scale Room Configuration,” meet the criteria defined therein, and
iii) when a sample panel with an assembled joint typical of field installation is subjected to the applicable test described in Subsection 3.1.12., have a flame-spread rating not more than that permitted for the room or space that they bound.
  © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 3.1.5.7.
2) Factory-assembled exterior wall panels containing thermosetting foamed plastic insulation are permitted to be used in a building required to be of noncombustible construction, provided
a) the building
i) is not more than 18 m high, measured from grade to the
underside of the roof, and
ii) doesnotcontainaGroupBorGroupCmajoroccupancy,and
b) the wall panels
i) do not contain an air space,
ii) are protected on both sides by sheet steel not less than 0.38 mm thick,
iii) remain in place for not less than 10 min when tested in conformance with CAN/ULC-S101, “Fire Endurance Tests of Building Construction and Materials,” where the exposed surface includes typical vertical and horizontal joints, and
iv) when a sample panel with an assembled joint typical of field installation is subjected to the applicable test described in Subsection 3.1.12., have a flame-spread rating not more than that permitted for the room or space that they bound.
3) A walk-in cooler or freezer consisting of factory-assembled wall, floor or ceiling panels containing foamed plastic insulation with a flame-spread rating not more than 500 is permitted to be used in a building required to be of noncombustible construction, provided
a) the building is sprinklered, and
b) the panels
i) are protected on both sides by sheet metal not less than 0.38 mm thick with a melting point not less than 650°C,
ii) do not contain an air space,
iii) whentestedinaccordancewithCAN/ULC-S138,“Testfor
Fire Growth of Insulated Building Panels in a Full-Scale
Room Configuration,” meet the criteria defined therein, and
iv) when a sample panel with an assembled joint typical of
field installation is subjected to the applicable test described in Subsection 3.1.12., have a flame-spread rating not more than that permitted for the space in which they are located or the space that they bound, as applicable.
(See Note A-3.1.4.2.(2) and 3.1.5.7.(3).)
4) Factory-assembled panels containing foamed plastic insulation used for the construction of air ducts network or air handling units that are part of a ventilation system are permitted to be used in a sprinklered building for which a noncombustible construction is required, provided
a) the panels
i) are factory-assembled,
ii) containonlythermosettingfoamedplasticinsulationinthe core,
iii) havethecoreprotectedonbothsidesbycorrosion-resistant steel sheet not less than 0.38 mm thick,
iv) do not have any air space,
v) haveaflame-spreadratingofnotmorethan75forthefoamed
plastic and not more than 25 for the panel, and
vi) haveasmokedevelopedclassificationofnotmorethan500
for the foamed plastic and not more than 50 for the panel,
b) the air-handling unit
i) ismanufactured,assembledorpreassembled,
ii) complies with CSA C22.2 No. 236, “Heating and cooling
equipment,” and
iii) ifitcontainsfoamedplastic,complieswiththerequirements
of Clause (a) in each of the parts containing foamed plastic.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division B 3-11
  © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.1.5.8.
Division B
3.1.5.8.
Nailing Elements
1) Wood nailing elements attached directly to or set into a continuous noncombustible backing for the attachment of interior finishes are permitted in a building required to be of noncombustible construction provided the concealed space created by the wood elements is not more than 50 mm thick.
2) Wood nailing elements for covering a roof or a bead-type copper wall are permitted in a building required to be of noncombustible construction, provided they are installed directly on Type X gypsum board that is at least 15.9 mm thick.
3) Continuous wood nailing elements in the walls of a washroom or a bathroom for the installation of grab bars or accessories around a bathtub, a shower, a lavatory or a water closet are permitted in a building required to be of noncombustible construction.
Combustible Millwork
1) Combustible millwork, including interior trim, doors and door frames, show windows together with their frames, aprons and backing, handrails, shelves, cabinets and counters, is permitted in a building required to be of noncombustible construction.
Combustible Flooring Elements
1) Combustible stage flooring supported on noncombustible structural members is
permitted in a building required to be of noncombustible construction.
2) Wood members more than 50 mm but not more than 300 mm high applied directly to or set into a noncombustible floor slab are permitted for the construction of a raised platform in a building required to be of noncombustible construction provided the concealed spaces created are divided into compartments by fire blocks in conformance with Sentence 3.1.11.3.(2).
3) The floor system for the raised platform referred to in Sentence (2) is permitted to include a combustible subfloor and combustible finished flooring.
4) Combustible finished flooring is permitted in a building required to be of noncombustible construction.
Combustible Stairs in Dwelling Units
1) Combustible stairs are permitted in a dwelling unit in a building required to be
of noncombustible construction. Combustible Interior Finishes
1) Except as permitted in Sentences (2) and (3), combustible interior wall and ceiling finishes referred to in Clause 3.1.13.1.(2)(b) that are not more than 1 mm thick are permitted in a building required to be of noncombustible construction.
2) Combustible interior wall finishes, other than foamed plastics, that are not
more than 25 mm thick are permitted in a building required to be of noncombustible construction, provided they have a flame-spread rating not more than 150 on any exposed surface, or any surface that would be exposed by cutting through the material in any direction.
3) Except as provided in Sentence (4), combustible interior ceiling finishes, other than foamed plastics, that are not more than 25 mm thick are permitted in a building required to be of noncombustible construction, provided they have a flame-spread rating not more than 25 on any exposed surface or on any surface that would be exposed by cutting through the material in any direction, except that not more than 10% of the ceiling area within each fire compartment is permitted to have a flame-spread rating not more than 150.
4) Combustible interior ceiling finishes made of fire-retardant-treated wood are permitted in a building required to be of noncombustible construction, provided they are not more than 25 mm thick or are exposed fire-retardant-treated wood battens.
3.1.5.9.
3.1.5.10.
3.1.5.11.
3.1.5.12.
3-12 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
  © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 3.1.5.14.
3.1.5.13.
3.1.5.14.
5) Ceilings consisting of a heavy timber roof, as permitted in Article 3.2.2.16., shall be authorized in a building for which a noncombustible construction is required, provided the heavy timber has a flame-spread rating of not more than 150.
Gypsum Board
1) Gypsum board with a tightly adhering paper covering not more than 1 mm thick is permitted in a building required to be of noncombustible construction provided the flame-spread rating on the surface is not more than 25.
Combustible Insulation
(See Note A-3.1.4.2.)
1) Foamed plastic insulation shall conform to Article 3.1.5.15.
2) Combustible insulation with a flame-spread rating not more than 25 on any
exposed surface, or any surface that would be exposed by cutting through the material in any direction, is permitted in a building required to be of noncombustible construction.
3) Combustible insulation is permitted to be installed above roof decks, outside of foundation walls below ground level, and beneath concrete slabs-on-ground of buildings required to be of noncombustible construction.
4) Except as provided in Sentences (5) and (6), combustible insulation with a flame-spread rating more than 25 but not more than 500 on any exposed surface, or any surface that would be exposed by cutting through the material in any direction, is permitted in a building required to be of noncombustible construction, provided
the insulation is protected from adjacent space in the building, other than adjacent concealed spaces within wall assemblies, by a thermal barrier consisting of
a) not less than 12.7 mm thick gypsum board mechanically fastened to a supporting assembly independent of the insulation,
b) lath and plaster, mechanically fastened to a supporting assembly independent of the insulation,
c) masonry, or
d) concrete.
5) Combustible insulation with a flame-spread rating more than 25 but not more than 500 on any exposed surface, or any surface that would be exposed by cutting through the material in any direction, is permitted in the exterior walls of a building required
to be of noncombustible construction that is not sprinklered and is more than 18 m high, measured from grade to the underside of the roof, provided the insulation is protected from adjacent space in the building, other than adjacent concealed spaces within wall assemblies, by a thermal barrier consisting of
a) gypsum board not less than 12.7 mm thick, mechanically fastened to a supporting assembly independent of the insulation and with all joints either backed or taped and filled,
b) lath and plaster, mechanically fastened to a supporting assembly independent of the insulation,
c) masonry or concrete not less than 25 mm thick, or
d) any thermal barrier that, when tested in conformance with CAN/ULC-S101,
“Fire Endurance Tests of Building Construction and Materials,” will not develop an average temperature rise more than 140°C or a maximum temperature rise more than 180°C at any point on its unexposed face within 10 min (see Note A-3.1.5.14.(5)(d)) (see also Article 3.2.3.7.).
6) Combustible insulation with a flame-spread rating more than 25 but not more than 500 on any exposed surface, or any surface that would be exposed by cutting through the material in any direction, is permitted in the interior walls, within ceilings and within roof assemblies of a building required to be of noncombustible construction that is not sprinklered and is more than 18 m high, measured from grade to the underside of the
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 3-13
   © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.1.5.15.
Division B
3.1.5.15.
roof, provided the insulation is protected from adjacent space in the building, other than adjacent concealed spaces within wall assemblies, by a thermal barrier consisting of
a) Type X gypsum board not less than 15.9 mm thick, mechanically fastened to a supporting assembly independent of the insulation and with all joints either backed or taped and filled, conforming to
i) ASTMC1177/C1177M,“GlassMatGypsumSubstratefor Use as Sheathing,”
ii) ASTMC1178/C1178M,“CoatedGlassMatWater-Resistant Gypsum Backing Panel,”
iii) ASTMC1396/C1396M,“GypsumBoard,”
iv) ASTMC1658/C1658M,“GlassMatGypsumPanels,”or
v) CAN/CSA-A82.27-M, “Gypsum Board,”
b) non-loadbearing masonry or concrete not less than 50 mm thick,
c) loadbearing masonry or concrete not less than 75 mm thick, or
d) any thermal barrier that, when tested in conformance with CAN/ULC-S101,
“Fire Endurance Tests of Building Construction and Materials,”
i) does not develop an average temperature rise more than
140°C or a maximum temperature rise more than 180°C at
any point on its unexposed face within 20 min, and
ii) remainsinplacefornotlessthan40min.
Foamed Plastic Insulation
(See Note A-3.1.4.2.)
1) Foamed plastic insulation is permitted to be installed above roof decks, outside of foundation walls below ground level, and beneath concrete slabs-on-ground of a building required to be of noncombustible construction.
2) Except as provided in Sentences (3) and (4), foamed plastic insulation with a flame-spread rating not more than 500 on any exposed surface, or any surface that would be exposed by cutting through the material in any direction, is permitted in a building required to be of noncombustible construction, provided the insulation is protected
from adjacent space in the building, other than adjacent concealed spaces within wall assemblies, by a thermal barrier consisting of
a) not less than 12.7 mm thick gypsum board mechanically fastened to a supporting assembly independent of the insulation,
b) lath and plaster, mechanically fastened to a supporting assembly independent of the insulation,
c) masonry,
d) concrete, or
e) any thermal barrier that meets the requirements of classification B when tested in conformance with CAN/ULC-S124, “Test for the Evaluation of Protective Coverings for Foamed Plastic.”
3) Foamed plastic insulation with a flame-spread rating more than 25 but not more than 500 on any exposed surface, or any surface that would be exposed by cutting through the material in any direction, is permitted in the exterior walls of a building required to be of noncombustible construction that is not sprinklered and is more than 18 m high, measured from grade to the underside of the roof, provided the insulation is protected from adjacent space in the building, other than adjacent concealed spaces within wall assemblies, by a thermal barrier consisting of
a) gypsum board not less than 12.7 mm thick, mechanically fastened to a supporting assembly independent of the insulation and with all joints either backed or taped and filled,
b) lath and plaster, mechanically fastened to a supporting assembly independent of the insulation,
c) masonry or concrete not less than 25 mm thick, or
d) any thermal barrier that, when tested in conformance with CAN/ULC-S101,
“Fire Endurance Tests of Building Construction and Materials,” does not develop an average temperature rise more than 140°C or a maximum temperature rise more than 180°C at any point on its unexposed face within 10 min (see Note A-3.1.5.14.(5)(d)) (see also Article 3.2.3.7.).
3-14 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
  © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 3.1.5.18.
3.1.5.16.
4) Foamed plastic insulation with a flame-spread rating more than 25 but not more than 500 on any exposed surface, or any surface that would be exposed by cutting through the material in any direction, is permitted in the interior walls, within ceilings and within roof assemblies of a building required to be of noncombustible construction that is not sprinklered and is more than 18 m high, measured from grade to the underside of the roof, provided the insulation is protected from adjacent space in the building, other than adjacent concealed spaces within wall assemblies, by a thermal barrier consisting of
a) Type X gypsum board not less than 15.9 mm thick, mechanically fastened to a supporting assembly independent of the insulation and with all joints either backed or taped and filled, conforming to
i) ASTMC1177/C1177M,“GlassMatGypsumSubstratefor Use as Sheathing,”
ii) ASTMC1178/C1178M,“CoatedGlassMatWater-Resistant Gypsum Backing Panel,”
iii) ASTMC1396/C1396M,“GypsumBoard,”or
iv) CAN/CSA-A82.27-M, “Gypsum Board,”
b) non-loadbearing masonry or concrete not less than 50 mm thick,
c) loadbearing masonry or concrete not less than 75 mm thick, or
d) any thermal barrier that, when tested in conformance with CAN/ULC-S101,
“Fire Endurance Tests of Building Construction and Materials,”
i) does not develop an average temperature rise more than
140°C or a maximum temperature rise more than 180°C at
any point on its unexposed face within 20 min, and
ii) remainsinplacefornotlessthan40min.
Combustible Elements in Partitions
1) Except as permitted by Sentence (2), solid lumber partitions not less than 38 mm thick and wood framing in partitions located in a fire compartment not more than
600 m2 in area are permitted to be used in a building required to be of noncombustible construction in a floor area that is not sprinklered throughout provided the partitions
a) are not required fire separations, and
b) are not located in a care, treatment or detention occupancy.
2) Partitions installed in a building of noncombustible construction are permitted to contain wood framing provided
a) the building is not more than 3 storeys in building height,
b) the partitions are not located in a care, treatment or detention occupancy, and
c) the partitions are not installed as enclosures for exits or vertical service spaces.
3) Solid lumber partitions not less than 38 mm thick and partitions that contain wood framing are permitted to be used in a building required to be of noncombustible construction provided
a) the building is sprinklered throughout, and
b) the partitions are not
i) locatedinacare,treatmentordetentionoccupancy,
ii) installedasenclosuresforexitsorverticalservicespaces,or
iii) usedtosatisfytherequirementsofClause3.2.8.1.(1)(a).
Storage Lockers in Residential Buildings
1) Storage lockers in storage rooms are permitted to be constructed of wood in a
building of residential occupancy required to be of noncombustible construction. Combustible Ducts
1) Except as required by Sentence 3.6.4.3.(1), combustible ducts, including plenums and duct connectors, are permitted to be used in a building required to be of noncombustible construction provided these ducts and duct connectors are used only in horizontal runs.
2) Combustible duct linings, duct coverings, duct insulation, vibration isolation connectors, duct tape, pipe insulation and pipe coverings are permitted to be used in
3.1.5.17.
3.1.5.18.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 3-15
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.1.5.19.
Division B
3.1.5.19.
a building required to be of noncombustible construction provided they conform to the appropriate requirements of Subsection 3.6.5.
3) In a building required to be of noncombustible construction, combustible ducts need not comply with the requirements of Sentences 3.6.5.1.(1) and (2) provided the ducts are
a) part of a duct system conveying only ventilation air, and
b) contained entirely within a dwelling unit.
Combustible Piping Materials
1) Except as permitted by Clause 3.1.5.2.(1)(d) and Sentences (2) and (3), combustible piping and tubing and associated adhesives are permitted to be used in a building required to be of noncombustible construction provided that, except when concealed in a wall or concrete floor slab, they
a) have a flame-spread rating not more than 25, and
b) if used in a building described in Subsection 3.2.6., have a smoke developed
classification not more than 50.
2) Combustible sprinkler piping is permitted to be used within a sprinklered floor
area in a building required to be of noncombustible construction. (See also Article 3.2.5.13.)
3) Polypropylene pipes and fittings are permitted to be used for drain, waste and vent piping for the conveyance of highly corrosive materials and for piping used to distribute distilled or dialyzed water in laboratory and hospital facilities in a building required to be of noncombustible construction, provided
a) the building is sprinklered throughout,
b) the piping is not located in a vertical shaft, and
c) piping that penetrates a fire separation is sealed at the penetration by a fire stop that has an FT rating not less than the fire-resistance rating of the fire separation when subjected to the fire test method in CAN/ULC-S115, “Fire Tests of Firestop Systems,” with a pressure differential of 50 Pa between the exposed and unexposed sides, with the higher pressure on the exposed side.
Combustible Plumbing Fixtures
1) Combustible plumbing fixtures, including wall and ceiling enclosures that form part of the plumbing fixture, are permitted in a building required to be of noncombustible construction provided they are constructed of material having a flame-spread rating and smoke developed classification not more than that permitted for the wall surface of the room or space in which they are installed.
Wires and Cables
1) Except as required by Sentence (2) and Article 3.1.5.22., optical fibre cables and electrical wires and cables with combustible insulation, jackets or sheathes are permitted in a building required to be of noncombustible construction, provided
a) the wires and cables exhibit a vertical char of not more than 1.5 m when tested in conformance with the Vertical Flame Test – Cables in Cable Trays (FT4 rating) in CSA C22.2 No. 0.3, “Test Methods for Electrical Wires and Cables,”
b) the wires and cables are located in
i) totally enclosed noncombustible raceways (see
Note A-3.1.4.3.(1)(b)(i)),
ii) masonry walls,
iii) concrete slabs,
iv) aserviceroomseparatedfromtheremainderofthebuilding
by a fire separation having a fire-resistance rating not less than
1 h, or
v) totally enclosed non-metallic raceways conforming to
Clause 3.1.5.23.(1)(b), or
c) the wires and cables are communication cables used at the service entry to a
building and are not more than 3 m long.
(See Note A-3.1.5.21.(1).)
3.1.5.20.
3.1.5.21.
3-16 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 3.1.5.23.
3.1.5.22.
3.1.5.23.
2) Except as permitted in Sentences (3) and (4), optical fibre cables and electrical wires and cables with combustible insulation, jackets or sheathes that are used for
the transmission of voice, sound or data and are not located in totally enclosed noncombustible raceways are permitted to be installed in a plenum in a building required to be of noncombustible construction, provided the wires and cables exhibit a horizontal flame distance of not more than 1.5 m, an average optical smoke density of not more than 0.15, and a peak optical smoke density of not more than 0.5 when tested in conformance with CAN/ULC-S102.4, “Test for Fire and Smoke Characteristics of Electrical Wiring, Cables and Non-Metallic Raceways,” (FT6 rating).
3) Except as permitted in Sentence (4), where totally enclosed noncombustible raceways are used in a plenum, exposed components of wiring systems with combustible insulation, jackets or sheathes, including optical fibre cables and electrical wires and cables that are used for the transmission of voice, sound or data, that are installed in the plenum or that extend not more than 9 m from the plenum including drop down to the floor level, are permitted provided they exhibit a vertical char of not more than
1.5 m when tested in conformance with the Vertical Flame Test – Cables in Cable Trays (FT4 rating) in CSA C22.2 No. 0.3, “Test Methods for Electrical Wires and Cables.”
4) Cables or wires within plenums that are used for the transmission of signals in fire alarm systems need not comply with the requirements of Sentences (2) and (3).
5) The requirements in Clause (1)(a) are met if the wires or cables exhibit a horizontal flame distance of not more than 1.5, an average optical smoke density of not more than 0.15, and a peak optical smoke density of not more than 0.5 when tested
in conformance with CAN/ULC-S102.4, “Test for Fire and Smoke Characteristics of Electrical Wiring, Cables and Non-Metallic Raceways,” (FT6 Rating).
Combustible Travelling Cables for Elevators and Dumbwaiters
1) Combustible travelling cables are permitted on elevating devices in a building
required to be of noncombustible construction. Non-metallic Raceways
1) Except as required in Sentence (2), subject to the limits on the size of elements that penetrate fire separations as stated in Sentence 3.1.9.3.(2), within a fire compartment of a building required to be of noncombustible construction, totally enclosed non-metallic raceways not more than 175 mm in outside diameter, or of an equivalent rectangular area, are permitted to be used to enclose optical fibre cables and electrical wires and cables, provided
a) where the wires and cables in the raceways meet or exceed the requirements of Clause 3.1.5.21.(1)(a), the non-metallic raceways meet the requirements for at least an FT4 rating in
i) CAN/CSA-C22.2 No. 262, “Optical Fiber Cable and Communication Cable Raceway Systems,” or
ii) CAN/ULC-S143,“FireTestsforNon-MetallicElectricaland Optical Fibre Cable Raceway Systems,” and
b) where the wires and cables in the raceways do not meet or exceed the requirements of Clause 3.1.5.21.(1)(a), the non-metallic raceways exhibit a vertical char of not more than 1.5 m when tested in conformance with the Vertical Flame Test (FT4) – Conduit or Tubing on Cable Tray in Clause 6.16 of CSA C22.2 No. 211.0, “General Requirements and Methods of Testing for Nonmetallic Conduit.”
2) Totally enclosed non-metallic raceways used in a plenum in a building required to be of noncombustible construction shall exhibit a horizontal flame distance of not more than 1.5 m, an average optical smoke density of not more than 0.15, and a
peak optical smoke density of not more than 0.5 when tested in conformance with CAN/ULC-S102.4, “Test for Fire and Smoke Characteristics of Electrical Wiring, Cables and Non-Metallic Raceways,” (FT6 rating).
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 3-17
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.1.5.24.
Division B
3.1.5.24.
3.1.6. 3.1.6.1.
3.1.6.2.
Decorative Wood Cladding
1) On buildings required to be of noncombustible construction, decorative wood cladding is permitted to be used on the exterior fascias and soffits of marquees or canopies on the building face of a storey having direct access to a street or access route, provided the wood cladding is fire-retardant-treated wood that has been conditioned in conformance with ASTM D 2898, “Accelerated Weathering of Fire-Retardant-Treated Wood for Fire Testing,” before being tested in accordance with CAN/ULC-S102, “Test for Surface Burning Characteristics of Building Materials and Assemblies.”
Tents and Air-Supported Structures
(See Note A-3.1.6.)
Means of Egress
1) Except as permitted by Sentences (2) and (3), tents and air-supported structures
shall conform to Sections 3.3. and 3.4.
2) Tents doors need not swing on a vertical axis.
3) Where the clearance between adjacent facilities or between a facility and a
property line serves as a means of egress, the minimum unobstructed width shall meet the requirements for a means of egress but not be less than 3 m.
Restrictions
1) Tents and air-supported structures shall not be erected inside or on a building.
2) An air-supported structure shall not be used for Groups B, C, or Group F,
Division 1 major occupancies or for classrooms.
3) Except as permitted by Sentence (4), tents or air-supported structures shall be designed as open floor space without interior walls, mezzanines, intermediate floors or other similar construction.
4) Canvas panels are permitted to be installed to divide space inside a tent or an air-supported structure provided the panels are installed not less than 1 m from the ceiling. (See Note A-3.1.6.2.(4).)
Clearance to Other Structures
1) Except as permitted by Sentence (2), every tent and air-supported structure shall
conform to Subsection 3.2.3.
2) Tents and air-supported structures
a) shall not be erected closer than 3 m to other structures on the same property,
and
b) shall be sufficiently distant from one another to provide an area to be used
as a means of emergency egress.
Clearance to Flammable Material
1) The ground enclosed by a tent or an air-supported structure and not less than 3 m of ground outside the structure shall be cleared of
a) all flammable material or vegetation that will spread fire, and
b) all tanks containing gas or flammable liquids.
Flame Resistance
1) Every tent and air-supported structure and all tarpaulins and decorative materials used in connection with these structures shall conform to CAN/ULC-S109, “Flame Tests of Flame-Resistant Fabrics and Films,” or NFPA 701, “Fire Tests for Flame-Resistant Textiles and Films.”
3.1.6.3.
3.1.6.4.
3.1.6.5.
3-18 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
  © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 3.1.7.1.
3.1.6.6.
3.1.6.7.
3.1.6.8.
3.1.6.9.
3.1.6.10.
3.1.6.11.
3.1.6.12.
3.1.6.13.
3.1.7. 3.1.7.1.
Emergency Air Supply
1) An air-supported structure used as a place of assembly for more than 200 persons shall have either
a) an automatic emergency engine-generator set capable of powering one blower continuously for 4 h, or
b) a supplementary blower powered by an automatic internal combustion engine.
Electrical Systems
1) The electrical system and equipment in a tent or air-supported structure, including
electrical fuses and switches, shall be inaccessible to the public.
2) Cables on the ground in areas used by the public in a tent or air-supported structure shall be placed in trenches or protected by covers to prevent damage from traffic.
Fire Alarm and Detection Systems
1) Tents or air-supported structures designed to accommodate more than 1 000 people shall be provided with a fire alarm system and a one-way voice communication system.
Bleachers
1) Where a tent or an air-supported structure contains bleachers, the latter shall
conform to Subsection 4.1.5.
Plumbing Facilities
1) Except as permitted by Sentence (2), the minimum number of water closets
required shall conform to Article 3.7.2.2.
2) Chemical toilets and similar sanitary facilities are permitted to be used instead of water closets provided they are located at a minimum distance of 3 m from the tent or air-supported structure.
Access for Firefighting
1) Every tent or air-supported structure shall have a fire access route.
Heat-Producing Equipment
1) It is prohibited to install cooking equipment or a combustion appliance in a tent
or an air-supported structure that is accessible to the public.
2) A special fire extinguishing system conforming to Article 2.1.3.5. of the NFC shall be provided where cooking equipment is installed inside a tent or an air-supported structure not open to the public and consists of more than 2 deep fryer baskets. (See Note A-3.1.6.12.(2).)
Structural Soundness
1) The structure of a tent or air-supported structure shall be designed and erected so
as to withstand the applicable loads. (See Note A-3.1.6.13.(1).)
Fire-Resistance Ratings Determination of Ratings
1) Except as permitted by Sentence (2) and Article 3.1.7.2., the rating of a material, assembly of materials or a structural member that is required to have a fire-resistance rating, shall be determined on the basis of the results of tests conducted in conformance with CAN/ULC-S101, “Fire Endurance Tests of Building Construction and Materials.”
2) A material, assembly of materials or a structural member is permitted to be assigned a fire-resistance rating on the basis of Appendix D.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 3-19
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.1.7.2.
Division B
3.1.7.2.
3.1.7.3.
3.1.7.4.
3.1.7.5.
Exception for Exterior Walls
1) The limit on the rise of temperature on the unexposed surface of an assembly as required by the tests referred to in Sentence 3.1.7.1.(1) shall not apply to an exterior wall that has a limiting distance of 1.2 m or more, provided correction is made for radiation from the unexposed surface in accordance with Sentence 3.2.3.1.(9).
Exposure Conditions for Rating
1) Floor, roof and ceiling assemblies shall be rated for exposure to fire on the
underside.
2) Firewalls and interior vertical fire separations shall be rated for exposure to fire on each side.
3) Exterior walls shall be rated for exposure to fire from inside the building. Minimum Fire-Resistance Rating
1) The use of materials or assemblies having a greater fire-resistance rating than required shall impose no obligation to exceed in whole or in part the minimum fire-resistance ratings required by this Part.
Rating of Supporting Construction
1) Except as permitted by Sentence (2) and by Articles 3.2.2.20. to 3.2.2.90. for mixed types of construction, all loadbearing walls, columns and arches in the storey immediately below a floor or roof assembly required to have a fire-resistance rating shall have a fire-resistance rating not less than that required for the supported floor or roof assembly.
2) Loadbearing walls, columns and arches supporting a service room or service space need not conform to Sentence (1).
3) If an assembly is required to be of noncombustible construction and have a fire-resistance rating, it shall be supported by noncombustible construction.
Sprinkler-Protected Fixed Glass Walls
(See Note A-3.1.7.6.)
1) The fire-resistance rating of a fixed glass wall system may be ensured by a sprinklered system designed in compliance with ULC/ORD-C263.1, “Sprinkler-Protected Window Systems.”
2) A sprinklered fixed glass wall system shall not be installed in
a) a fire separation required to have a fire-resistance rating of more than 2 h,
b) a firewall,
c) a fire separation with a fire-resistance rating separating a patients’ or residents’
sleeping room in a Group B, Division 2 or 3 occupancy,
d) a fire separation with a fire-resistance rating separating an area of refuge
described in Article 3.3.3.6.,
e) a high-hazard industrial occupancy, or
f) any part of an exit.
3) A sprinklered fixed glass wall system is permitted to be installed in a building provided the building is sprinklered.
Fire Separations and Closures General Requirements
1) Any wall, partition or floor assembly required to be a fire separation shall
a) except as permitted by Sentence (2), be constructed as a continuous element,
and
b) as required in this Part, have a fire-resistance rating as specified (see
Note A-3.1.8.1.(1)(b)).
3.1.7.6.
3.1.8. 3.1.8.1.
3-20 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 3.1.8.4.
3.1.8.2.
3.1.8.3.
2) Openings in a fire separation shall be protected with closures, shafts or other means in conformance with Articles 3.1.8.4. to 3.1.8.19. and Subsections 3.1.9. and 3.2.8. (See Note A-3.1.8.1.(2).)
Combustible Construction Support
1) Combustible construction that abuts on or is supported by a noncombustible fire separation shall be constructed so that its collapse under fire conditions will not cause the collapse of the fire separation.
Continuity of Fire Separations
1) Except as permitted by Sentence 3.6.4.2.(2), a horizontal service space or other concealed space located above a required vertical fire separation, including the walls of a vertical shaft, shall be divided at the fire separation by an equivalent fire separation within the service space.
2) The fire separation required by Sentence (1) shall terminate so that smoke-tight joints are provided where it abuts on or intersects
a) a floor,
b) a roof slab, or
c) a roof deck.
3) Except as required by Subsection 3.6.3. for a shaft penetrating a roof assembly, a shaft, including an exit enclosure, that penetrates a fire separation, shall
a) extend through any horizontal service space or any other concealed space, and
b) terminate so that smoke-tight joints are provided where the shaft abuts
on or intersects i) a floor,
ii) a roof slab, or iii) a roof deck.
4) The continuity of a fire separation shall be maintained where it abuts another fire separation, a floor, a ceiling, a roof, or an exterior wall assembly. (See Note A-3.1.8.3.(4).)
Determination of Ratings and Classifications
1) Except as permitted by Sentences (2) and 3.1.8.16.(1), the fire-protection rating of a closure shall be determined in accordance with
a) CAN/ULC-S104, “Fire Tests of Door Assemblies,”
b) CAN/ULC-S106, “Fire Tests of Window and Glass Block Assemblies,” or
c) CAN/ULC-S112, “Fire Test of Fire Damper Assemblies.”
(See Articles 3.1.8.17. to 3.1.8.19. for additional requirements for closures.)
2) Except as permitted by Sentence 3.1.8.12.(1), the fire-protection rating of a closure shall conform to Table 3.1.8.4. for the required fire-resistance rating of the fire separation.
3) The leakage rate of smoke dampers and combination smoke/fire dampers shall
a) be determined in accordance with the applicable provisions in
CAN/ULC-S112.1, “Leakage Rated Dampers for Use in Smoke Control
Systems,” and
b) conform to Class I, II or III of that standard.
4) The leakage rate of a door assembly shall be determined in accordance with ANSI/UL-1784, “Air Leakage Tests of Door Assemblies and Other Opening Protectives.”
3.1.8.4.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division B 3-21
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 3.1.8.4.
3.1.8.2.
3.1.8.3.
2) Openings in a fire separation shall be protected with closures, shafts or other means in conformance with Articles 3.1.8.4. to 3.1.8.19. and Subsections 3.1.9. and 3.2.8. (See Note A-3.1.8.1.(2).)
Combustible Construction Support
1) Combustible construction that abuts on or is supported by a noncombustible fire separation shall be constructed so that its collapse under fire conditions will not cause the collapse of the fire separation.
Continuity of Fire Separations
1) Except as permitted by Sentence 3.6.4.2.(2), a horizontal service space or other concealed space located above a required vertical fire separation, including the walls of a vertical shaft, shall be divided at the fire separation by an equivalent fire separation within the service space.
2) The fire separation required by Sentence (1) shall terminate so that smoke-tight joints are provided where it abuts on or intersects
a) a floor,
b) a roof slab, or
c) a roof deck.
3) Except as required by Subsection 3.6.3. for a shaft penetrating a roof assembly, a shaft, including an exit enclosure, that penetrates a fire separation, shall
a) extend through any horizontal service space or any other concealed space, and
b) terminate so that smoke-tight joints are provided where the shaft abuts
on or intersects i) a floor,
ii) a roof slab, or iii) a roof deck.
4) The continuity of a fire separation shall be maintained where it abuts another fire separation, a floor, a ceiling, a roof, or an exterior wall assembly. (See Note A-3.1.8.3.(4).)
Determination of Ratings and Classifications
1) Except as permitted by Sentences (2) and 3.1.8.16.(1), the fire-protection rating of a closure shall be determined in accordance with
a) CAN/ULC-S104, “Fire Tests of Door Assemblies,”
b) CAN/ULC-S106, “Fire Tests of Window and Glass Block Assemblies,” or
c) CAN/ULC-S112, “Fire Test of Fire Damper Assemblies.”
(See Articles 3.1.8.17. to 3.1.8.19. for additional requirements for closures.)
2) Except as permitted by Sentence 3.1.8.12.(1), the fire-protection rating of a closure shall conform to Table 3.1.8.4. for the required fire-resistance rating of the fire separation.
3) The leakage rate of smoke dampers and combination smoke/fire dampers shall
a) be determined in accordance with the applicable provisions in
CAN/ULC-S112.1, “Leakage Rated Dampers for Use in Smoke Control
Systems,” and
b) conform to Class I, II or III of that standard.
4) The leakage rate of a door assembly shall be determined in accordance with ANSI/UL-1784, “Air Leakage Tests of Door Assemblies and Other Opening Protectives.”
3.1.8.4.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division B 3-21
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022
 3.1.8.5.
Division B
3.1.8.5.
3h 2h 4h 3h
Installation of Closures
1) Except where fire dampers, window assemblies and glass block are used as closures, closures of the same fire-protection rating installed on opposite sides of the same opening are deemed to have a fire-protection rating equal to the sum of the fire-protection ratings of the closures. (See Note A-3.1.8.1.(2).)
2) Except as otherwise specified in this Part, every door, fire damper, window assembly or glass block used as a closure in a required fire separation shall be installed in conformance with NFPA 80, “Fire Doors and Other Opening Protectives.” (See Note A-3.1.8.1.(2).)
3) Except as otherwise specified in this Part, every smoke damper or combination smoke/fire damper used as a closure in a required fire separation shall be installed
in conformance with NFPA 105, “Smoke Door Assemblies and Other Opening Protectives.”
4) If a door is installed such that it could damage the integrity of a fire separation if its swing is unrestricted, door stops shall be installed to prevent the damage.
5) Protective guarding devices shall be
a) provided where necessary to prevent damage to the mechanical components
of doors in fire separations, and
b) installed so as not to interfere with the proper operation of the doors.
6) A leakage-rated door assembly complying with Sentence 3.1.8.4.(4) shall be installed in
a) fire separations in protected floor areas referred to in Clause 3.3.1.7.(1)(b),
b) fire separations in care or treatment occupancies referred to in Sentence 3.3.3.5.(4)
or in the fire separations of a fire compartment provided for partial egress
of the building in a care occupancy,
c) except as provided in Sentence (8), fire separations of public corridors serving
dwelling units in storeys that are not sprinklered, and
d) firewalls.
7) Leakage-rated door assemblies required by Sentence (6) shall be installed in accordance with NFPA 105, “Smoke Door Assemblies and Other Opening Protectives.”
8) A leakage-rated door assembly need not be installed where a dwelling unit served by a public corridor has
a) a second and separate means of egress, or
b) an open-air balcony that is sized to accommodate the number of occupants
for which the dwelling unit is intended. Maximum Openings
1) The size of an opening in an interior fire separation required to be protected with a closure shall be not more than 11 m2, with no dimension more than 3.7 m, if a fire compartment on either side of the fire separation is not sprinklered.
3.1.8.6.
3-22 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Fire-Resistance Rating of Fire Separation
45 min 1 h 1.5 h 2 h
Minimum Fire-Protection Rating of Closure
45 min 45 min 1 h 1.5 h
Table 3.1.8.4.
Fire-Protection Rating of Closures Forming Part of Sentences 3.1.8.4.(2) and 3.1.9.1.(1)
     © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 3.1.8.8.
3.1.8.7.
2) The size of an opening in an interior fire separation required to be protected with a closure shall be not more than 22 m2, with no dimension more than 6 m, provided the fire compartments on both sides of the fire separation are sprinklered.
Location of Fire Dampers and Smoke Dampers
1) Except as provided in Article 3.1.8.8., a fire damper having a fire-protection rating conforming to Sentence 3.1.8.4.(2) shall be installed in conformance with Article 3.1.8.10. in ducts or air-transfer openings that penetrate an assembly required to be a fire separation.
2) Except as provided in Article 3.1.8.9., a smoke damper or a combination smoke/fire damper shall be installed in conformance with Article 3.1.8.11. in ducts or air-transfer openings that penetrate an assembly required to be a fire separation, where the fire separation
a) separates a public corridor,
b) contains an egress door referred to in Sentence 3.4.2.4.(2),
c) serves an assembly, care, treatment, detention or residential occupancy, or
d) is installed to meet the requirements of Clause 3.3.1.7.(1)(b) or
Sentence 3.3.3.5.(4).
Fire Dampers Waived
1) Except as provided in Sentence (2), the requirement for fire dampers stated in Sentence 3.1.8.7.(1) is permitted to be waived for
a) ducts that serve commercial cooking equipment (see also Article 6.3.1.7.),
b) continuous noncombustible ducts having a melting point above 760°C that penetrate a vertical fire separation required by Sentence 3.3.1.1.(1) between
suites of assembly, mercantile, low-hazard industrial, medium-hazard industrial
or high-hazard industrial occupancy,
c) ducts or air-transfer openings that penetrate a vertical fire separation not
required to have a fire-resistance rating, or
d) noncombustible ducts or air-transfer openings that penetrate a horizontal fire
separation not required to have a fire-resistance rating.
2) The requirement for fire dampers stated in Sentence 3.1.8.7.(1) is permitted to be waived for noncombustible branch ducts having a melting point above 760°C that penetrate a fire separation,
a) provided the ducts
i) haveacross-sectionalareanotmorethan0.013m2andserve
only air-conditioning units or combined air-conditioning and heating units discharging air not more than 1.2 m above the floor, or
ii) extendnotlessthan500mminsideexhaustductrisersthat are under negative pressure and in which the airflow is upward as required by Article 3.6.3.4., or
b) where the fire separation separates a vertical service space from the remainder of the building, provided each individual duct exhausts directly to the outdoors at the top of the vertical service space.
3) An exhaust duct of a chemical hood that penetrates a fire separation separating a vertical service space from the remainder of the building need not be equipped with a fire damper at the fire separation provided
a) the exhaust duct conforms to NFPA 45, “Fire Protection for Laboratories Using Chemicals,” and
b) at least one hanger supporting the duct conforms to good practice such as that described in the SMACNA Manuals, and is installed less than 500 mm from the wall of the vertical service space.
3.1.8.8.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 3-23
   © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.1.8.9.
Division B
3.1.8.9.
Smoke Dampers Waived
1) Except as provided in Sentence (2), the requirement for smoke dampers or combination smoke/fire dampers stated in Sentence 3.1.8.7.(2) is permitted to be waived for ducts
a) that serve commercial cooking equipment (see also Article 6.3.1.7.),
b) in which all inlet and outlet openings serve not more than one fire
compartment, or
c) that penetrate a vertical fire separation referred to in Clause 3.3.1.7.(1)(b)
or in Sentence 3.3.3.5.(4), provided
i) themovementofairiscontinuous,and
ii) theconfigurationoftheair-handlingsystempreventsthe recirculation of exhaust or return air under fire emergency conditions.
2) The requirement for smoke dampers or combination smoke/fire dampers stated in Sentence 3.1.8.7.(2) is permitted to be waived for noncombustible branch ducts having a melting point above 760°C that penetrate a fire separation,
a) provided the ducts
i) haveacross-sectionalareanotmorethan0.013m2andserve
only air-conditioning units or combined air-conditioning and heating units discharging air not more than 1.2 m above the floor,
ii) extendnotlessthan500mminsideexhaustductrisersthat are under negative pressure and in which the airflow is upward as required by Article 3.6.3.4., or
iii) arerequiredtofunctionaspartofasmokecontrolsystem, or
b) where the fire separation separates a vertical service space from the remainder of the building, provided each individual duct exhausts directly to the outdoors at the top of the vertical service space.
Installation of Fire Dampers
1) A fire damper shall be installed in the plane of the fire separation so as to stay in
place should the duct become dislodged during a fire. (See Note A-3.1.8.10.(1).)
2) A fire damper shall be arranged so as to close automatically upon the operation of a fusible link conforming to ULC-S505, “Fusible Links for Fire Protection Service,” or other heat-actuated or smoke-actuated device.
3) A heat-actuated device referred to in Sentence (2) shall
a) be located where it is readily affected by an abnormal rise in temperature
in the duct, and
b) have a temperature rating approximately 30°C above the maximum
temperature that would exist in the system, whether it is in operation or shut down.
4) A fire damper tested in the vertical or horizontal position shall be installed in the position in which it was tested.
5) A tightly fitted access door shall be installed for each fire damper to provide access for the inspection of the damper and the resetting of the release device. (See Note A-3.1.8.10.(5).)
Installation of Smoke Dampers
1) Where smoke dampers are used as a closure in an air-transfer opening, they
shall be installed in the plane of the fire separation.
2) Where combination smoke/fire dampers are used as a closure in a duct, they shall be installed within 610 mm of the plane of the fire separation, provided there is no inlet or outlet opening between the fire separation and the damper.
3) Except as required by a smoke control system, smoke dampers and combination smoke/fire dampers shall be configured so as to close automatically upon a signal from
3.1.8.10.
3.1.8.11.
3-24 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
  © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 3.1.8.14.
3.1.8.12.
an adjacent smoke detector located as described in CAN/ULC-S524, “Installation of Fire Alarm Systems,” within 1.5 m horizontally of the duct or air-transfer opening in the fire separation
a) on both sides of the air-transfer opening, or
b) in the duct downstream of the smoke damper or combination smoke/fire
damper.
4) Smoke dampers or combination smoke/fire dampers shall be installed in the
vertical or horizontal position in which they were tested.
5) A tightly fitted access door shall be installed for each smoke damper and combination smoke/fire damper to provide access for their inspection and the resetting of the release device. (See Note A-3.1.8.10.(5).)
Twenty-Minute Closures
1) A door assembly having a fire-protection rating not less than 20 min is permitted to be used as a closure in
a) a fire separation not required to have a fire-resistance rating more than 1 h, located between
i) a public corridor and a suite,
ii) acorridorandadjacentsleepingrooms,or
iii) acorridorandadjacentclassrooms,officesandlibrariesin Group A, Division 2 major occupancies, or
b) a fire separation not required to have a fire-resistance rating more than 45 min, located in a building not more than 3 storeys in building height.
2) The requirements for noncombustible sills and combustible floor coverings in NFPA 80, “Fire Doors and Other Opening Protectives,” do not apply to a door described in Sentence (1).
3) A door described in Sentence (1) shall have clearances of not more than 6 mm at the bottom and not more than 3 mm at the sides and top.
Self-closing Devices
1) Except as permitted by Sentence (2), every door in a fire separation, other than doors to freight elevators and dumbwaiters, shall be equipped with a self-closing device designed to return the door to the closed position after each use.
2) A self-closing device need not be provided on a door that is located between
a) a classroom and a corridor providing access to exit from the classroom in a
building that is not more than 3 storeys in building height,
b) a public corridor and an adjacent room of business and personal services
occupancy in a building that is not more than 3 storeys in building height
provided the door is not located in a dead-end portion of the corridor,
c) a patients’ or residents’ sleeping room and a corridor serving the patients’
or residents’ sleeping room, provided the room and corridor are within a
fire compartment that complies with the requirements of Article 3.3.3.5., or
d) a patients’ or residents’ sleeping room and an adjacent room that serves the patients’ or residents’ sleeping room, provided these rooms are within a fire
compartment that complies with the requirements of Article 3.3.3.5.
Hold-Open Devices
1) Except as provided in Sentences 3.1.8.10.(2) and 3.1.8.11.(3), a hold-open device is permitted to be used on a closure in a required fire separation, other than on an
exit stair door serving more than 3 storeys and on a door for a vestibule required by Article 3.3.5.7., provided the device is designed to release the closure in conformance with this Article.
3.1.8.13.
3.1.8.14.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 3-25
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.1.8.15.
Division B
3.1.8.15.
3.1.8.16.
3.1.8.17.
3-26 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
2) Except as provided in Sentences (5) and (6), where the building is provided with a fire alarm system, a hold-open device permitted by Sentence (1) shall release
a) b)
in a single-stage system, upon any signal from the fire alarm system, and in a 2-stage system,
i) uponanyalertsignalfromthefirealarmsystem,or ii) uponactuationofanyadjacentsmokedetectors.
Where the building is provided with a fire alarm system, a hold-open device permitted by Sentence (1) shall release upon a signal from a smoke detector connected to the fire alarm system and located as described in CAN/ULC-S524, “Installation of Fire Alarm Systems,”where the hold-open device is used on
a) an exit door,
b) a door opening into a public corridor,
c) an egress door referred to in Sentence 3.4.2.4.(2),
d) a closure serving an assembly, care, treatment, detention, or residential occupancy,
e) a door in a fire separation referred to in Clause 3.3.1.7.(1)(b) or
Sentence 3.3.3.5.(4), or in a fire compartment provided for partial egress of the building in a care occupancy, or
f) a door required to function as part of a smoke control system.
4) Where the building is not provided with a fire alarm system, a hold-open device permitted by Sentence (1) shall release upon a signal from a smoke alarm located on each side of the fire separation at ceiling level within 1.5 m horizontally of the closure opening in the fire separation, where the hold-open device is used on closures described in Clauses (3)(a) to (e).
5) Where a hold-open device is used on closures other than those described in Sentences (3) and (4), it is permitted to be released upon actuation of a heat-actuated device.
6) A hold-open device used on a door located between a corridor used by the public and an adjacent sleeping room in a treatment occupancy need not release automatically as stated in Sentence (2).
Door Latches
1) Except as permitted by Article 3.3.3.5., a swing-type door in a fire separation shall be equipped with a positive latching mechanism designed to hold the door in the closed position after each use.
Wired Glass and Glass Block
1) Except as permitted by Articles 3.1.8.18. and 3.1.8.19. for the separation of exits, an opening in a fire separation having a fire-resistance rating not more than 1 h is permitted to be protected with fixed wired glass assemblies or glass blocks installed in conformance with NFPA 80, “Fire Doors and Other Opening Protectives.”
2) Wired glass assemblies permitted by Sentence (1) and described in Appendix D are permitted to be used as closures in vertical fire separations without being tested
in accordance with Sentence 3.1.8.4.(1).
3) Glass blocks permitted by Sentence (1) shall be installed in accordance with Subsection 4.3.2. and reinforced with steel reinforcement in each horizontal joint.
Temperature Rise Limit for Doors
1) Except as permitted by Article 3.1.8.19., the maximum temperature rise on the opaque portion of the unexposed side of a door used as a closure in a fire separation in a location shown in Table 3.1.8.17. shall conform to the Table when tested in conformance with Sentence 3.1.8.4.(1).
3)
  © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
3.1.9.1.
Between a dead-end corridor and an adjacent occupancy where the corridor provides the only access to exit and is required to have a fire-resistance rating
Between an exit enclosure and the adjacent floor area (except as permitted above)
Less than 45 min
45 min 1.5 h 2 h 1.5 h 3 h
No limit
250 after 30 min 250 after 1 h 250 after 1 h 250 after 30 min 250 after 1 h
No limit
0.0645 0.0645 0.0645 0.0645 0
No limit
0.0645 0.0645 0.0645 0
0
In a firewall
3.1.8.18.
3.1.8.19.
Area Limits for Wired Glass and Glass Block
3.1.9.
3.1.9.1.
1) Except as permitted by Article 3.1.8.19., the maximum area of wired glass in a door used in the locations shown in Table 3.1.8.17. shall conform to the Table. (See Note A-3.1.8.18.(1).)
2) Except as permitted by Article 3.1.8.19., the maximum area of glass block and wired glass panels not in a door, used in the locations shown in Table 3.1.8.17., shall conform to the Table.
Temperature Rise and Area Limits Waived
1) The temperature rise limits and glass area limits required by Articles 3.1.8.17. and 3.1.8.18. are waived for a closure between an exit enclosure and an enclosed vestibule or corridor, provided
a) the vestibule or corridor is separated from the remainder of the floor area by a fire separation having a fire-resistance rating not less than 45 min,
b) the fire separation required by Clause (a) contains no wired glass or glass block within 3 m of the closure into the exit enclosure, and
c) the vestibule or corridor contains no occupancy.
(See Note A-3.1.8.19.(1).)
Penetrations in Fire Separations and Fire-Rated Assemblies
(See Note A-3.1.9.)
Fire Stops
1) Except as provided in Sentences (2) to (5) and Article 3.1.9.4., penetrations of a fire separation or a membrane forming part of an assembly required to have a fire-resistance rating shall be
a) sealed by a fire stop that, when subjected to the fire test method in CAN/ULC-S115, “Fire Tests of Firestop Systems,” has an F rating not less
Table 3.1.8.17.
Restrictions on Temperature Rise and Glazing for Closures Forming Part of Articles 3.1.8.17. and 3.1.8.18.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 3-27
  Location
Minimum Required
Fire-Protection Rating
of Door
  Maximum Temperature Rise on Opaque Portion of Unexposed Side of Door, °C
 Maximum Area of Wired Glass in Door, m2
 Maximum Aggregate Area of Glass Block and Wired Glass Panels not in a Door, m2
     45 min
  250 after 30 min
 0.0645
 0.0645
  Between an exit enclosure and the adjacent floor area in a building not more than 3 storeys in building height
All ratings
  No limit
 0.8
 0.8
       © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.1.9.2.
Division B
3.1.9.2.
3.1.9.3.
than the fire-protection rating required for closures in the fire separation in
conformance with Table 3.1.8.4., or
b) cast in place (see Note A-3.1.9.1.(1)(b)).
(See also Article 3.1.9.5. for requirements regarding penetrations by combustible drain, waste and vent piping.)
2) Penetrations of a firewall or a horizontal fire separation that is required to
have a fire-resistance rating in conformance with Article 3.2.1.2. shall be sealed at the penetration by a fire stop that, when subjected to the fire test method in CAN/ULC-S115, “Fire Tests of Firestop Systems,” has an FT rating not less than the fire-resistance rating for the fire separation.
3) Penetrations of a fire separation in conformance with Sentence 3.6.4.2.(2) shall be sealed by a fire stop that, when subjected to the fire test method in CAN/ULC-S115, “Fire Tests of Firestop Systems,” has an FT rating not less than the fire-resistance rating for the fire separation of the assembly.
4) Sprinklers are permitted to penetrate a fire separation or a membrane forming part of an assembly required to have a fire-resistance rating without having to meet the fire stop requirements of Sentences (1) to (3), provided the annular space created by the penetration of a fire sprinkler is covered by a metal escutcheon plate in accordance with NFPA 13, “Installation of Sprinkler Systems.”
5) Unless specifically designed with a fire stop, fire dampers are permitted to penetrate a fire separation or a membrane forming part of an assembly required to have a fire-resistance rating without having to meet the fire stop requirements of Sentences (1) to (3), provided the fire damper is installed in conformance with NFPA 80, “Fire Doors and Other Opening Protectives.”
Combustibility of Service Penetrations
1) Except as permitted by Articles 3.1.9.3. and 3.1.9.5., pipes, ducts, electrical outlet boxes, totally enclosed raceways or other similar service equipment that penetrate an assembly required to have a fire-resistance rating shall be noncombustible, unless the assembly was tested incorporating that service equipment. (See Note A-3.1.9.2.(1).)
Penetration by Wires, Cables and Outlet Boxes
1) Optical fibre cables and electrical wires and cables in totally enclosed noncombustible raceways are permitted to penetrate an assembly required to have a fire-resistance rating without being incorporated in the assembly at the time of testing as required by Article 3.1.9.2.
2) Except as permitted by Sentence (3), totally enclosed non-metallic raceways conforming to Article 3.1.5.23., optical fibre cables, and electrical wires and cables, single or grouped, with combustible insulation, jackets or sheathes that conform to the requirements of Clause 3.1.5.21.(1)(a) and that are not installed in totally enclosed noncombustible raceways are permitted to penetrate an assembly required to have a fire-resistance rating without being incorporated in the assembly at the time of testing as required by Article 3.1.9.2., provided the overall diameter of the single or grouped wires or cables, or the raceways is not more than 25 mm.
3) Single conductor metal sheathed cables with combustible jacketting that are more than 25 mm in overall diameter are permitted to penetrate a fire separation required
to have a fire-resistance rating without being incorporated in the assembly at the time
of testing as required by Article 3.1.9.2., provided the cables are not grouped and
are spaced a minimum of 300 mm apart.
4) Combustible totally enclosed raceways that are embedded in a concrete floor slab are permitted in an assembly required to have a fire-resistance rating without being incorporated in the assembly at the time of testing as required by Article 3.1.9.2., provided the concrete cover between the raceway and the bottom of the slab is not less than 50 mm.
5) Combustible outlet boxes are permitted in an assembly required to have a fire-resistance rating without being incorporated in the assembly at the time of testing
3-28 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 3.1.9.5.
3.1.9.4.
as required by Article 3.1.9.2., provided the opening through the membrane into the box is not more than 0.016 m2.
Penetration by Outlet Boxes
(See Note A-3.1.9.4.)
1) Except as provided in Sentence (2), outlet boxes are permitted to penetrate the membrane of an assembly required to have a fire-resistance rating, provided they are sealed at the penetration by a fire stop that has an FT rating not less than the fire-resistance rating of the fire separation when subjected to the fire test method in CAN/ULC-S115, “Fire Tests of Firestop Systems.”
2) Except as provided in Sentences 3.1.9.1.(2) and (3), noncombustible outlet boxes that penetrate a vertical fire separation or a membrane forming part of an assembly required to have a fire-resistance rating need not conform to Sentence (1), provided
a) they do not exceed
i) 0.016 m2 in area, and
ii) an aggregate area of 0.065 m2 in any 9.3 m2 of surface area, and
b) the annular space between the membrane and the noncombustible electrical outlet boxes does not exceed 3 mm.
3) In addition to the requirements of Sentence (2), outlet boxes on opposite sides of a vertical fire separation having a fire-resistance rating shall be separated by
a) a horizontal distance of not less than 600 mm, or
b) a fire block conforming to Article 3.1.11.7.
Combustible Piping Penetrations
1) Combustible sprinkler piping is permitted to penetrate a fire separation provided
the fire compartments on each side of the fire separation are sprinklered.
2) Combustible water distribution piping is permitted to penetrate a fire separation that is required to have a fire-resistance rating without being incorporated in the assembly at the time of testing as required by Article 3.1.9.2., provided the piping is protected at the penetration with a fire stop in conformance with Sentence (4).
3) Except as permitted by Sentences (4) to (5), combustible piping shall not be used in a drain, waste and vent piping system if any part of that system penetrates
a) a fire separation required to have a fire-resistance rating, or
b) a membrane that forms part of an assembly required to have a fire-resistance
rating.
4) Combustible drain, waste and vent piping is permitted to penetrate a fire separation required to have a fire-resistance rating or a membrane that forms part of an assembly required to have a fire-resistance rating, provided
a) the piping is sealed at the penetration by a fire stop that has an F rating not less than the fire-resistance rating required for the fire separation when subjected to the fire test method in CAN/ULC-S115, “Fire Tests of Firestop Systems,” with a pressure differential of 50 Pa between the exposed and unexposed sides, with the higher pressure on the exposed side, and
b) the piping is not located in a vertical service space.
5) Combustible drain, waste and vent piping is permitted on one side of a vertical
fire separation provided it is not located in a vertical service space.
6) Combustible piping for central vacuum systems is permitted to penetrate a fire separation provided the installation conforms to the requirements that apply to combustible drain, waste and vent piping specified in Sentence (4).
3.1.9.5.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 3-29
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.1.9.6.
Division B
3.1.9.6.
3.1.9.7.
3.1.10. 3.1.10.1.
Openings through a Membrane Ceiling
1) A membrane ceiling forming part of an assembly assigned a fire-resistance rating on the basis of Appendix D is permitted to be penetrated by openings leading into ducts within the ceiling space, provided
a) the ducts are sheet steel, and
b) the number of openings and their protection conform to the requirements
of Appendix D.
Plenums
1) A ceiling assembly used as a plenum shall conform to Article 3.6.4.3.
Firewalls
Prevention of Firewall Collapse
1) Except as permitted by Sentence (2), the connections and supports for structural framing members that are connected to or supported on a firewall and have a fire-resistance rating less than that required for the firewall, shall be designed so that the failure of the framing systems during a fire will not affect the integrity of the firewall during the fire.
2) Sentence (1) does not apply to a firewall consisting of two separate wall assemblies each tied to its respective building frame but not to each other, provided each wall assembly is
a) a fire separation having one half of the fire-resistance rating required for the firewall by Sentences 3.1.10.2.(1) and (2), and
b) designed so that the collapse of one wall assembly will not cause collapse of the other.
3) A firewall is permitted to be supported on the structural frame of a building of noncombustible construction provided the supporting frame has a fire-resistance rating not less than that required for the firewall.
4) Piping, ducts and totally enclosed noncombustible raceways shall be installed so that their collapse will not cause collapse of the firewall.
Rating of Firewalls
1) A firewall that separates a building or buildings with floor areas containing a Group E or a Group F, Division 1 or 2 major occupancy shall be constructed as a fire separation of noncombustible construction having a fire-resistance rating not less than 4 h, except that where the upper portion of a firewall separates floor areas containing other than Group E or Group F, Division 1 or 2 major occupancies, the fire-resistance rating of the upper portion of the firewall is permitted to be not less than 2 h.
2) A firewall that separates a building or buildings with floor areas containing major occupancies other than Group E or Group F, Division 1 or 2 shall be constructed as a fire separation of noncombustible construction having a fire-resistance rating not less than 2 h.
3) The required fire-resistance rating of a firewall, except for closures, shall be provided by masonry or concrete.
Continuity of Firewalls
1) A firewall shall extend from the ground continuously through, or adjacent to, all storeys of a building or buildings so separated, except that a firewall located above a basement storage garage conforming to Article 3.2.1.2. is permitted to commence at the floor assembly immediately above the storage garage. (See also Sentence 3.1.10.1.(3).)
3.1.10.2.
3.1.10.3.
3-30 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 3.1.11.2.
3.1.10.4.
2) A firewall is permitted to terminate on the underside of a reinforced concrete roof slab, provided
a) the roof slab on both sides of the firewall has a fire-resistance rating not less than
i) 1hifthefirewallisrequiredtohaveafire-resistancerating not less than 2 h, or
ii) 2hifthefirewallisrequiredtohaveafire-resistancerating not less than 4 h, and
b) there are no concealed spaces within the roof slab in that portion immediately above the firewall.
Parapets
1) Except as permitted by Sentences (2) and 3.1.10.3.(2), a firewall shall extend above the roof surface to form a parapet not less than
a) 150 mm high for a firewall required to have a fire-resistance rating not less than 2 h, and
b) 900 mm high for a firewall required to have a fire-resistance rating not less than 4 h.
2) A firewall that separates 2 buildings with roofs at different elevations need not extend above the upper roof surface to form a parapet, provided the difference in elevation between the roofs is more than 3 m.
Maximum Openings
1) Openings in a firewall shall conform to the size limits described in Article 3.1.8.6. and the aggregate width of openings shall be not more than 25% of the entire length of the firewall.
Exposure Protection for Adjacent Walls
1) The requirements of Article 3.2.3.14. shall apply to the external walls of 2
buildings that meet at a firewall at an angle less than 135°. Combustible Projections
1) Combustible material shall not extend across the end of a firewall but is permitted to extend across a roof above a firewall that is terminated in conformance with Sentence 3.1.10.3.(2).
2) If buildings are separated by a firewall, combustible projections on the exterior
of one building, including balconies, platforms, canopies, eave projections and stairs, that extend outward beyond the end of the firewall, shall not be permitted within 1.2 m of the centerline of the firewall. (See also Article 3.2.3.6.)
Fire Blocks in Concealed Spaces Separation of Concealed Spaces
1) Concealed spaces in interior wall, ceiling and crawl spaces shall be separated from concealed spaces in exterior walls and attic or roof spaces by fire blocks conforming to Article 3.1.11.7.
Fire Blocks in Wall Assemblies
1) Except as permitted by Sentence (2), fire blocks conforming to Article 3.1.11.7. shall be provided to block off concealed spaces within a wall assembly
a) at every floor level,
b) at every ceiling level where the ceiling forms part of an assembly required
to have a fire-resistance rating, and
c) so that the maximum horizontal dimension is not more than 20 m and the
maximum vertical dimension is not more than 3 m.
2) Fire blocks conforming to Sentence (1) are not required, provided a) the wall space is filled with insulation,
3.1.10.5.
3.1.10.6.
3.1.10.7.
3.1.11. 3.1.11.1.
3.1.11.2.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division B 3-31
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.1.11.3.
Division B
3.1.11.3.
b) the exposed construction materials and any insulation within the wall space are noncombustible,
c) the exposed materials within the space, including insulation but not including wiring, piping or similar services, have a flame-spread rating not more than 25 on any exposed surface, or on any surface that would be exposed by cutting through the material in any direction, and fire blocks are installed so that the vertical distance between them is not more than 10 m, or
d) the insulated wall assembly contains not more than one concealed air space, and the horizontal thickness of that air space is not more than 25 mm.
Fire Blocks between Nailing and Supporting Elements
1) In a building required to be of noncombustible construction, a concealed space in which there is an exposed ceiling finish with a flame-spread rating more than 25 shall be provided with fire blocks conforming to Article 3.1.11.7. between wood nailing elements so that the maximum area of the concealed space is not more than 2 m2.
2) In a building required to be of noncombustible construction, fire blocks conforming to Article 3.1.11.7. shall be provided in the concealed spaces created by the wood members permitted by Sentence 3.1.5.10.(2) so that the maximum area of a concealed space is not more than 10 m 2.
Fire Blocks between Vertical and Horizontal Spaces
1) Fire blocks conforming to Article 3.1.11.7. shall be provided
a) at all interconnections between concealed vertical and horizontal spaces in interior coved ceilings, drop ceilings and soffits in which the exposed
construction materials within the space have a flame-spread rating more than
25, and
b) at the end of each run and at each floor level in concealed spaces between
stair stringers in which the exposed construction materials within the space have a flame-spread rating more than 25.
Fire Blocks in Horizontal Concealed Spaces
1) Except for crawl spaces conforming to Sentence 3.1.11.6.(1) and except as provided in Sentence (3), horizontal concealed spaces within a floor assembly or roof assembly of combustible construction, in which sprinklers are not installed, shall be separated by construction conforming to Article 3.1.11.7. into compartments
a) not more than 600 m2 in area with no dimension more than 60 m if the exposed construction materials within the space have a flame-spread rating not more than 25, and
b) not more than 300 m2 in area with no dimension more than 20 m if the exposed construction materials within the space have a flame-spread rating more than 25.
(See Note A-3.1.11.5.(1).)
2) A concealed space in an exterior cornice, a mansard-style roof, a balcony or a canopy in which exposed construction materials within the space have a flame-spread rating more than 25, shall be separated by construction conforming to Article 3.1.11.7.
a) at locations where the concealed space extends across the ends of required vertical fire separations, and
b) so that the maximum dimension in the concealed space is not more than 20 m.
3) Horizontal concealed spaces within a floor assembly or roof assembly of a building conforming to Article 3.2.2.50. or 3.2.2.58. shall
a) be filled with noncombustible insulation, or
b) be sprinklered in conformance with NFPA 13, “Installation of Sprinkler
Systems.”
(See Note A-3.1.11.5.(3).)
3.1.11.4.
3.1.11.5.
3-32 Division B
Amended Page National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 3.1.12.1.
3.1.11.6.
3.1.11.7.
Fire Blocks in Crawl Spaces
1) A crawl space that is not considered as a basement by Article 3.2.2.9. and in which sprinklers are not installed, shall be separated by construction conforming to Article 3.1.11.7. into compartments not more than 600 m2 in area with no dimension more than 30 m.
Fire Block Materials
1) Except as permitted by Sentences (2) to (4) and (7), fire blocks shall remain in place and prevent the passage of flames for not less than 15 min when subjected to the standard fire exposure in CAN/ULC-S101, “Fire Endurance Tests of Building Construction and Materials.”
2) Gypsum board not less than 12.7 mm thick and sheet steel not less than
0.38 mm thick need not be tested in conformance with Sentence (1), provided all joints have continuous support.
3) In a building required to be of noncombustible construction, wood nailing elements described in Article 3.1.5.8. need not be tested in conformance with Sentence (1).
4) In a building permitted to be of combustible construction, in a combustible roof system permitted by Sentence 3.1.5.3.(2), and in a raised platform permitted by Sentence 3.1.5.10.(2), fire blocks are permitted to be
a) solid lumber or a structural composite lumber product conforming to ASTM D 5456, “Evaluation of Structural Composite Lumber Products,”not less than 38 mm thick,
b) phenolic bonded plywood, waferboard, or oriented strandboard not less than 12.5 mm thick with joints supported, or
c) two thicknesses of lumber or a structural composite lumber product conforming to ASTM D 5456, “Evaluation of Structural Composite Lumber Products,” each not less than 19 mm thick with joints staggered, where the width or height of the concealed space requires more than one piece of lumber or structural composite lumber product not less than 38 mm thick to block off the space.
5) Openings through materials referred to in Sentences (1) to (4) shall be protected to maintain the integrity of the construction.
6) Where materials referred to in Sentences (1) to (4) are penetrated by construction elements or by service equipment, a fire stop shall be used to seal the penetration. (See Note A-3.1.11.7.(6).)
7) In buildings permitted to be of combustible construction, semi-rigid fibre insulation board produced from glass, rock or slag is permitted to be used to block the vertical space in a double stud wall assembly formed at the intersection of the floor assembly and the walls, provided the width of the vertical space does not exceed
25 mm and the insulation board
a) has a density not less than 45 kg/m3,
b) is securely fastened to one set of studs,
c) extends from below the bottom of the top plates in the lower storey to above the top of the bottom plate in the upper storey, and
d) completely fills the portion of the vertical space between the headers and between the wall plates.
(See Note A-3.1.11.7.(7).)
Flame-Spread Rating and Smoke Developed Classification Determination of Ratings
1) Except as required by Sentence (2) and as permitted by Sentence (3), the flame-spread rating and smoke developed classification of a material, assembly, or structural member shall be determined on the basis of not less than three tests conducted in conformance with CAN/ULC-S102, “Test for Surface Burning Characteristics of Building Materials and Assemblies.”
3.1.12. 3.1.12.1.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division B 3-33
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.1.13.1.
Division B
3.1.13. 3.1.13.1.
2) The flame-spread rating and smoke developed classification of a material or assembly shall be determined on the basis of not less than three tests conducted in conformance with CAN/ULC-S102.2, “Test for Surface Burning Characteristics of Flooring, Floor Coverings, and Miscellaneous Materials and Assemblies,” if the material or assembly
a) is designed for use in a relatively horizontal position with only its top surface exposed to air,
b) cannot be tested in conformance with Sentence (1) without the use of supporting material that is not representative of the intended installation, or
c) is thermoplastic.
3) A material, assembly, or structural member is permitted to be assigned a
flame-spread rating and smoke developed classification on the basis of Appendix D. Interior Finish
Interior Finishes, Furnishings and Decorative Materials
1) Except as otherwise provided by this Subsection, interior finishes, furnishings
and decorative materials shall conform to Section 2.3. of Division B of the NFC.
2) Interior finish material shall include any material that forms part of the interior surface of a floor, wall, partition or ceiling, including
a) interior cladding of plaster, wood or tile,
b) surfacing of fabric, paint, plastic, veneer or wallpaper,
c) doors, windows and trim,
d) lighting elements such as light diffusers and lenses forming part of the
finished surface of the ceiling, and
e) carpet material that overlies a floor that is not intended as the finished floor.
Flame-Spread Rating
1) Except as otherwise required or permitted by this Subsection, the flame-spread rating of interior wall and ceiling finishes, including glazing and skylights, shall be not more than 150 and shall conform to Table 3.1.13.2.
Table 3.1.13.2. Flame-Spread Ratings Forming Part of Sentence 3.1.13.2.(1)
3.1.13.2.
Occupancy, Location or Element
Maximum Flame-Spread Rating for Walls and Ceilings
Group A, Division 1 occupancies, including doors, skylights, glazing and light 150 diffusers and lenses
Group B occupancies 150
Exits(1) 25
Lobbies described in Sentence 3.4.4.2.(2) 25
Covered vehicular passageways, except for roof assemblies of heavy timber 25 construction in the passageways
Vertical service spaces 25 Notes to Table 3.1.13.2.:
(1) See Articles 3.1.13.8. and 3.1.13.10.
3-34 Division B
3) Doors within a dwelling unit need not conform to Sentences (1) and (2).
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
2) Except as permitted by Sentence (3), doors, other than those in Group A, Division 1 occupancies, need not conform to Sentence (1) provided they have a flame-spread rating not more than 200. (See Note A-3.1.13.2.(2).)
Sprinklered
Not Sprinklered
75
75 25 25 25
25
    © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 3.1.13.6.
3.1.13.3.
3.1.13.4.
4) Up to 10% of the total wall area and 10% of the total ceiling area of a wall or ceiling finish that is required by Sentence (1) to have a flame-spread rating less than 150 is permitted to have a flame-spread rating not more than 150, except that up to 25% of the total wall area of lobbies described in Sentence 3.4.4.2.(2) is permitted to have
a flame-spread rating not more than 150.
5) Except in the case of Group A, Division 1 occupancies, combustible doors, skylights, glazing and light diffusers and lenses shall not be considered in the calculation of wall and ceiling areas described in Sentence (4).
Bathrooms in Residential Suites
1) The flame-spread rating of interior wall and ceiling finishes for a bathroom within
a suite of residential occupancy shall be not more than 200. Light Diffusers and Lenses
1) The flame-spread rating of combustible light diffusers and lenses in all occupancies other than Group A, Division 1 is permitted to be more than the flame-spread rating limits required elsewhere in this Subsection, provided the light diffusers and lenses
a) have a flame-spread rating not more than 250 and a smoke developed classification not more than 600 when tested in conformance with CAN/ULC-S102.2, “Test for Surface Burning Characteristics of Flooring, Floor Coverings, and Miscellaneous Materials and Assemblies,”
b) fall to the bottom of the test apparatus before igniting when tested in conformance with CAN/ULC-S102.3, “Fire Test of Light Diffusers and Lenses,”
c) are not prevented from falling from the ceiling by construction located beneath the elements, and
d) are not used in a corridor that is required to be separated from the remainder of the building by a fire separation or in an exit shaft unless individual diffusers or lenses are not more than 1 m2 in area and are not less than 1.2 m apart.
Skylights
1) Individual combustible skylights in a corridor that is required to be separated from the remainder of the building by a fire separation shall be not more than 1 m2 in area and not less than 1.2 m apart.
Corridors
1) Except as permitted by Sentences (2) and (3), the flame-spread rating shall be not more than 75 for the interior wall finish of
a) a public corridor,
b) a corridor used by the public in an assembly occupancy, or
c) a corridor serving classrooms.
2) The flame-spread rating for corridors specified in Sentence (1) is permitted to be waived, provided the flame-spread rating is not more than
a) 25 on the upper half of the wall, and
b) 150 on the lower half of the wall.
3) Where the floor area is sprinklered throughout, the flame-spread ratings for corridors specified in Sentences (1) and (2) shall be not more than 150.
4) The flame-spread ratings specified in Sentences (1), (2) and (3) apply to occupancies in the corridor as well as to the corridor itself.
5) Except as provided in Sentence (6), the interior ceiling finish of corridors and occupancies referred to in Sentences (1) and (4) shall have a flame-spread rating not more than 25.
6) Where the floor area is sprinklered throughout, the flame-spread rating of the interior ceiling finish of corridors and occupancies referred to in Sentences (1) and (4) shall be not more than 150.
3.1.13.5.
3.1.13.6.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 3-35
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.1.13.7. Division B
3.1.13.7.
High Buildings
1) Except as permitted by Sentences (2) to (4), the interior wall, ceiling and floor finishes in a building regulated by the provisions of Subsection 3.2.6. shall conform to the flame-spread rating requirements in Articles 3.1.13.2. and 3.1.13.11. and to the flame-spread rating and smoke developed classification values in Table 3.1.13.7.
Table 3.1.13.7.
Flame-Spread Rating and Smoke Developed Classification in High Buildings Forming Part of Sentence 3.1.13.7.(1)
Location or Element
Wall
Surface Ceiling Surface(1)
25 25
(2) (2)
75 75
25 25
25 25 (2) (2)
Floor Surface
Exit stairways, vestibules to exit stairs and lobbies described in Sentence 3.4.4.2.(2)
Corridors not within suites Elevator cars
Elevator vestibules
Service spaces and service rooms Other locations and elements
Notes to Table 3.1.13.7.:
(1) See Article 3.1.13.4. for lighting elements.
(2) Other requirements of this Part apply.
25 50 50 50
3.1.13.8.
2) Except for a building of Group B major occupancy and elevator cars, the flame-spread rating and smoke developed classification of interior wall, floor and ceiling finishes need not conform to the values in Table 3.1.13.7., provided the building is sprinklered.
3) Trim and millwork in an exit stairway, a vestibule to an exit stairway, a lobby described in Sentence 3.4.4.2.(2), or a corridor not within a suite need not conform to the flame-spread rating and smoke developed classification requirements of Sentence (1) provided they have
a) a flame-spread rating not more than 150,
b) a smoke developed classification not more than 300, and
c) an aggregate area not more than 10% of the area of the wall or ceiling on which they occur.
4) A door serving an exit stairway, a vestibule to an exit stairway, a lobby described in Sentence 3.4.4.2.(2), or a corridor not within a suite need not conform to the flame-spread rating and smoke developed classification requirements of Sentence (1) provided
a) it has a flame-spread rating not more than 200,
b) it has a smoke developed classification not more than 300, and
c) the aggregate area of all doors is not more than 10% of the area of the wall in which they are located.
Noncombustible Construction
1) In a building required to be of noncombustible construction,
a) the flame-spread ratings required by Subsection 3.1.5. shall apply in addition
to the requirements in this Subsection, and
b) the flame-spread ratings for exits in this Subsection shall also apply to any
surface in the exit that would be exposed by cutting through the material in any direction, except that this requirement does not apply to doors, heavy timber construction in a sprinklered building and fire-retardant-treated wood.
3-36 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Maximum Flame-Spread Rating
Maximum Smoke Developed Classification
Wall Surface Ceiling Floor Surface(1) Surface
300          100
300          450
300          100
50 500 450 450 100 300
25 50 50 50 No Limit 300 50 No Limit
    © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 3.1.15.1.
3.1.13.9.
3.1.13.10.
3.1.13.11.
3.1.14. 3.1.14.1.
Underground Walkways
1) Except for paint, the interior wall and ceiling finishes of an underground
walkway shall be of noncombustible materials. Exterior Exit Passageway
1) The wall and ceiling finishes of an exterior exit passageway that provides the only means of egress from the rooms or suites it serves, including the soffit beneath and the guard on the passageway, shall have a flame-spread rating not more than 25, except that a flame-spread rating not more than 150 is permitted for up to 10% of the total wall area and for up to 10% of the total ceiling area.
Elevator Cars
1) The wall and ceiling surfaces of elevator cars shall have a flame-spread rating
not more than 75.
2) The wall, ceiling and floor surfaces of elevator cars shall have a smoke developed classification not more than 450.
Roof Assemblies Fire-Retardant-Treated Wood Roof Systems
1) If a fire-retardant-treated wood roof system is used to comply with the requirements of Subsection 3.2.2., the roof deck assembly shall meet the conditions of acceptance of CAN/ULC-S126, “Test for Fire Spread Under Roof-Deck Assemblies.”
2) Supports for the roof deck assembly referred to in Sentence (1) shall consist of
a) fire-retardant-treated wood,
b) heavy timber construction,
c) noncombustible construction, or
d) a combination thereof.
Metal Roof Deck Assemblies
1) Except as permitted by Sentence (2), a metal roof deck assembly shall meet the conditions of acceptance of CAN/ULC-S126, “Test for Fire Spread Under Roof-Deck Assemblies,” if
a) it supports a combustible material above the deck that could propagate a fire beneath the roof deck assembly, and
b) the deck is used to comply with the requirements of Sentences 3.2.2.25.(2), 3.2.2.32.(2), 3.2.2.60.(2), 3.2.2.66.(2), 3.2.2.76.(2) and 3.2.2.83.(2) for noncombustible construction.
2) The requirements of Sentence (1) are waived provided
a) the combustible material above the roof deck is protected by not less than
12.7 mm thick gypsum board, mechanically fastened to a supporting assembly if located beneath the roof deck, or by a thermal barrier conforming to one of Clauses 3.1.5.15.(2)(c) to (e) that is located
i) ontheundersideofthecombustiblematerial,or ii) beneath the roof deck,
b) the building is sprinklered throughout, or
c) the roof assembly has a fire-resistance rating not less than 45 min.
Roof Covering
Roof Covering Classification
1) A roof covering classification shall be determined in conformance with CAN/ULC-S107, “Fire Tests of Roof Coverings.”
3.1.14.2.
3.1.15. 3.1.15.1.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division B 3-37
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.1.15.2.
Division B
3.1.15.2.
Roof Coverings
1) Except as provided in Sentences (2) and (3), every roof covering shall have a
Class A, B or C classification as determined in accordance with Article 3.1.15.1.
2) A roof covering is not required to have a Class A, B or C classification for
a) deleted,
b) deleted,
c) a building of Group A, Division 2 occupancy not more than 2 storeys in
building height and not more than 1 000 m2 in building area provided the roof
covering is underlaid with noncombustible material, or
d) a steel building system referred to in Article 4.3.4.3., provided the roof
covering consists of brick, masonry, concrete, metal sheets or metal shingles.
3) Where a building conforming to Article 3.2.2.50. or 3.2.2.58. has a roof terrace, the roof covering the building must have a Class A classification.
Fabrics
Fabric Canopies and Marquees
1) Fabrics used as part of an awning, canopy or marquee that is located within or attached to a building of any type of construction shall conform to CAN/ULC-S109, “Flame Tests of Flame-Resistant Fabrics and Films.”
Occupant Load
Occupant Load Determination
1) The occupant load of a floor area or part of a floor area shall be based on
a) the number of seats in an assembly occupancy having fixed seats,
b) 2 persons per sleeping room in a dwelling unit, or
c) the number of persons for which the area is designed, but not less than that
determined from Table 3.1.17.1. for occupancies other than those described in Clauses (a) and (b), unless it can be shown that the area will be occupied by fewer persons.
2) If a floor area or part thereof has been designed for an occupant load other than that determined from Table 3.1.17.1., a permanent sign indicating that occupant load shall be posted in a conspicuous location.
3.1.16. 3.1.16.1.
3.1.17. 3.1.17.1.
3-38 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
3.1.17.1.
Table 3.1.17.1. Occupant Load Forming Part of Article 3.1.17.1.
Type of Use of Floor Area or Part Thereof
Assembly uses
space with fixed seats
space with non-fixed seats
stages for theatrical performances
space with non-fixed seats and tables standing space
stadia and grandstands
bowling alleys, pool and billiard rooms classrooms
school shops and vocational rooms reading or writing rooms or lounges dining, beverage and cafeteria space laboratories in schools
arcades
dance floors
exhibition halls and interpretation centres gymnasium and physical fitness facilities libraries, museums and skating rinks swimming pools
Care, treatment or detention uses dwelling units
care, treatment and sleeping room areas
detention quarters Residential uses
dwelling units
dormitories
Business and personal services uses
personal services shops
offices Mercantile uses
basements and first storeys
second storeys having a principal entrance from a pedestrian thoroughfare or a parking area other storeys
Industrial uses
manufacturing or process rooms storage garages
storage spaces (warehouse) aircraft hangars
Area per person, m2
(1)
0.75
0.75
0.95
0.40
0.60
9.30
1.85
9.30
1.85
1.20
4.60
1.85
0.40
3.00
9.30
3.00 (2)
(3)
10.00 11.60
(3) 4.60
4.60 9.30
3.70 3.70 5.60
4.60 46.00 28.00 46.00
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division B 3-39
   © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.2.1.1.
Division B
Table 3.1.17.1. (Continued)
Type of Use of Floor Area or Part Thereof
Other uses
cleaning and repair goods
kitchens
storage
public corridors intended for occupancies in addition to pedestrian travel
Notes to Table 3.1.17.1.:
Area per person, m2
4.60
9.30 46.00 3.70(4)
(1) See Clause 3.1.17.1.(1)(a).
(2) The occupant load in a swimming pool is obtained by allowing 1.40 m2 of water area per person in the part of the pool where the depth is 1.40 m
or less, and 2.20 m2 in the other part.
(3) See Clause 3.1.17.1.(1)(b) (apply values for dwelling units to sleeping rooms in care occupancies).
(4) See Note A-3.3.
3) For the purposes of this Article, mezzanines, tiers and balconies shall be regarded as part of the floor area.
4) If a room or group of rooms is intended for different occupancies at different times, the value to be used from Table 3.1.17.1. shall be the value which gives the greatest number of persons for the occupancies concerned.
Section 3.2. Building Fire Safety
3.2.1. 3.2.1.1.
General
Exceptions in Determining Building Height
1) A roof-top enclosure provided for elevator machinery, a stairway, a passenger elevator vestibule or a service room used for no purpose other than for service to the building, shall not be considered as a storey in calculating the building height.
2) Space under tiers of seats in a building of the arena type shall not be considered as adding to the building height provided the space is used only for dressing rooms, concession stands and similar purposes incidental to the major occupancy of the building.
3) Except as required by Sentence (5), the space above a mezzanine need not be considered as a storey in calculating the building height, provided
a) the aggregate area of mezzanines that are not superimposed does not exceed 40% of the open area of the room in which they are located (see Note A-3.2.1.1.(3)(a)), and
b) except as permitted in Sentences (7) and 3.3.2.13.(3), the space above the mezzanine is used as an open area without partitions or subdividing walls higher than 1 070 mm above the mezzanine floor.
4) Except as required by Sentence (5), the space above a mezzanine need not be considered as a storey in calculating the building height, provided
a) the aggregate area of mezzanines that are not superimposed and do not meet the conditions of Sentence (3) does not exceed 10% of the floor area in which they are located, and
b) the area of a mezzanine in a suite does not exceed 10% of the area of that suite.
5) Except as permitted by Sentence (6), each level of mezzanine that is partly or wholly superimposed above the first level of mezzanine shall be considered as a storey in calculating the building height.
3-40 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
   © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 3.2.1.4.
3.2.1.2.
6) Platforms intended solely for periodic inspection and elevated maintenance catwalks need not be considered as floor assemblies or mezzanines for the purpose of calculating building height, provided
a) they are not used for storage, and
b) they are constructed with noncombustible materials, unless the building is
permitted to be of combustible construction.
7) The space above a mezzanine conforming to Sentence (3) is permitted to include an enclosed space whose area does not exceed 10% of the open area of the room in which the mezzanine is located provided the enclosed space does not obstruct visual communication between the open space above the mezzanine and the room in which
it is located. (See Note A-3.2.1.1.(3)(a).)
8) A service space in which facilities are included to permit a person to enter and to undertake maintenance and other operations pertaining to building services from within the service space need not be considered a storey if it conforms to Articles 3.2.5.14. and 3.3.1.24., and Sentences 3.2.4.18.(10), 3.2.7.3.(2), 3.3.1.3.(7), 3.4.2.4.(3) and 3.4.4.4.(9). (See Note A-3.2.1.1.(8).)
Storage Garage Considered as a Separate Building
1) A basement used primarily as a storage garage is permitted to be considered as a separate building for the purposes of Subsection 3.2.2. and Sentences 3.2.5.12.(2) and (3), provided the floor and roof assemblies above the basement and the exterior walls of the basement above the adjoining ground level are constructed as fire separations of noncombustible construction having a fire-resistance rating not less than
2 h and protected in conformance with Sentence 3.1.10.2.(3), except as permitted by Sentence (2). (See Note A-3.2.1.2.(1).)
2) The exterior wall of a basement that is required to be a fire separation with a fire-resistance rating in accordance with Sentence (1) is permitted to be penetrated by openings that are not protected by closures provided
a) the storage garage is sprinklered throughout,
b) every opening in the exterior wall is separated from storeys above the
opening by a projection of the floor or roof assembly above the basement, extending not less than
i) 1mbeyondtheexteriorfaceofthestoragegarageiftheupper storeys are required to be of noncombustible construction, or
ii) 2mbeyondtheexteriorfaceofthestoragegarageiftheupper storeys are permitted to be of combustible construction, or
c) the exterior walls of any storeys located above the floor or roof assembly referred to in Sentence (1) are recessed behind the outer edge of the assembly by not less than
i) 1miftheupperstoreysarerequiredtobeofnoncombustible construction, or
ii) 2 m if the upper storeys are permitted to be of combustible construction.
3) The floor or roof assembly projection referred to in Clause (2)(b) shall have a fire-resistance rating not less than 2 h and shall have no openings within the projection.
Roof Considered as a Wall
1) For the purposes of this Section any part of a roof that is pitched at an angle of 60° or more to the horizontal and is adjacent to a space intended for occupancy within a building shall be considered as part of an exterior wall of the building.
Floor Assembly over Basement
1) Except as permitted by Sentence 3.2.2.47.(3), 3.2.2.48.(3), 3.2.2.49.(3), 3.2.2.51.(3), 3.2.2.52.(3), 3.2.2.53.(3) or 3.2.2.54.(3), a floor assembly immediately above a basement shall be constructed as a fire separation having a fire-resistance rating conforming to
the requirements of Articles 3.2.2.20. to 3.2.2.90. for a floor assembly, but not less
than 45 min.
3.2.1.3.
3.2.1.4.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 3-41
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.2.1.5.
Division B
3.2.1.5.
2) All loadbearing walls, columns and arches supporting a floor assembly immediately above a basement shall have a fire-resistance rating not less than that required by Sentence (1) for the floor assembly.
Fire Containment in Basements
1) Except as permitted by Sentences (2) and 3.2.2.15.(3), in a building in which an automatic sprinkler system is not required to be installed by Article 3.2.2.18., every basement shall
a) be sprinklered throughout, or
b) be subdivided into fire compartments not more than 600 m2 in area by a fire
separation having a fire-resistance rating not less than that required for the floor assembly immediately above the basement.
2) An open-air storey need not conform to Sentence (1). Mezzanines
1) The floor assembly of a mezzanine that is required to be considered as a storey in calculating the building height shall be constructed in conformance with the fire separation requirements for floor assemblies stated in Articles 3.2.2.20. to 3.2.2.90.
Building Size and Construction Relative to Occupancy Application
1) Except as permitted by Article 3.2.2.3., a building shall be constructed in conformance with this Subsection to prevent fire spread and collapse caused by the effects of fire. (See Subsection 3.1.3. for fire separations between major occupancies.)
Special and Unusual Structures
1) A structure that cannot be identified with the characteristics of a building
in Articles 3.2.2.20. to 3.2.2.90. shall be protected against fire spread and collapse in conformance with good fire protection engineering practice. (See Note A-3.2.2.2.(1).) (See also Notes A-3 and A-3.2.5.12.(1).)
Exceptions to Structural Fire Protection
1) Fire protection is not required for
a) steel lintels above openings not more than 2 m wide in loadbearing walls and
not more than 3 m wide in non-loadbearing walls,
b) steel lintels above openings more than 2 m wide in loadbearing walls and
more than 3 m wide in non-loadbearing walls provided the lintels are supported at intervals of not more than 2 m by structural members with the required fire-resistance rating,
c) the bottom flanges of shelf angles and plates that are not a part of the structural frame,
d) steel members for framework around elevator hoistway doorways, steel for the support of elevator and dumbwaiter guides, counterweights and other similar equipment, that are entirely enclosed in a hoistway and are not a part of the structural frame of the building,
e) steel members of stairways and escalators that are not a part of the structural frame of a building,
3.2.1.6.
3.2.2. 3.2.2.1.
3.2.2.2.
3.2.2.3.
3-42 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
3.2.2.8.
3.2.2.4.
3.2.2.5.
3.2.2.6.
3.2.2.7.
(See also Article 3.2.3.9.)
Buildings with Multiple Major Occupancies
1) The requirements restricting fire spread and collapse for a building of a single major occupancy classification are provided in this Subsection according to its building height and building area.
2) If a building contains more than one major occupancy, classified in more than one Group or Division, the requirements of this Subsection concerning building size and construction relative to major occupancy shall apply according to Articles 3.2.2.5. to 3.2.2.8.
Applicable Building Height and Area
1) In determining the fire safety requirements of a building in relation to each of the major occupancies contained therein, the building height and building area of the entire building shall be used.
Multiple Major Occupancies
1) Except as permitted by Articles 3.2.2.7. and 3.2.2.8., in a building containing more than one major occupancy, the requirements of this Subsection for the most restricted major occupancy contained shall apply to the whole building.
Superimposed Major Occupancies
1) Except as provided in Article 3.2.2.8. and Sentence 3.2.2.18.(2), in a building
in which one major occupancy is located entirely above another major occupancy, the requirements in this Subsection for each portion of the building containing a major occupancy shall apply to that portion as if the entire building were of that major occupancy.
2) If one major occupancy is located above another major occupancy, the fire-resistance rating of the floor assembly between the major occupancies shall be determined on the basis of the requirements of this Subsection for the lower major occupancy. (See also Article 3.1.3.1.)
3) A building conforming to Article 3.2.2.50. or 3.2.2.58. shall comply with the requirements of Article 3.1.3.2.
4) A building conforming to Article 3.2.2.50. or 3.2.2.58. having major occupancies above other major occupancies shall be built in accordance with the type of construction and the dimensions described in those Articles.
Exceptions for Major Occupancies
1) In a building in which the aggregate area of all major occupancies in a particular Group or Division is not more than 10% of the floor area of the storey in which they are located, these major occupancies need not be considered as major occupancies for the purposes of this Subsection, provided they are not private seniors’ residences or they are not classified as Group F, Division 1 or 2 occupancies.
3.2.2.8.
f) g)
steel members of porches, exterior balconies, exterior stairways, fire escapes, cornices, marquees and other similar appurtenances, provided they are outside an exterior wall of a building, and
loadbearing steel or concrete members wholly or partly outside a building face in a building not more than 4 storeys in building height and classified as Group A, B, C, D or F, Division 3 major occupancy provided the members are
i) notlessthan1mawayfromanyunprotectedopeninginan exterior wall, or
ii) shieldedfromheatradiationintheeventofafirewithinthe building by construction that will provide the same degree of protection that would be necessary if the member was located inside the building, with the protection extending on either side of the member a distance equal to the projection of the member from the face of the wall.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 3-43
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.2.2.9.
Division B
3.2.2.9.
Crawl Spaces
1) For the purposes of Articles 3.1.11.6., 3.2.1.4. and 3.2.1.5., a crawl space shall be considered as a basement if it is
a) more than 1.8 m high between the lowest part of the floor assembly and the ground or other surface below,
b) used for any occupancy,
c) used for the passage of flue pipes, or
d) used as a plenum in combustible construction.
2) A floor assembly immediately above a crawl space is not required to be constructed as a fire separation and is not required to have a fire-resistance rating provided the crawl space is not required to be considered as a basement by Sentence (1).
Streets
1) Every building shall face a street located in conformance with the requirements
of Articles 3.2.5.4. and 3.2.5.5. for access routes.
2) For the purposes of Subsections 3.2.2. and 3.2.5. an access route conforming to
Subsection 3.2.5. is permitted to be considered as a street.
3) A building conforming to Article 3.2.2.50. or 3.2.2.58. is considered to face 1 street where not less than 25% of the building perimeter is located within 15 m of a street. (See Note A-3.2.2.10.(3).)
4) A building is considered to face 2 streets provided not less than 50% of the building perimeter is located within 15 m of the street or streets.
5) A building is considered to face 3 streets provided not less than 75% of the building perimeter is located within 15 m of the street or streets.
6) Enclosed spaces, tunnels, bridges and similar structures, even though used for vehicular or pedestrian traffic, are not considered as streets for the purpose of this Part.
Exterior Balconies
1) An exterior balcony shall be constructed in accordance with the type of construction required by Articles 3.2.2.20. to 3.2.2.90., as applicable to the occupancy classification of the building.
Exterior Passageways
1) An elevated exterior passageway used as part of a means of egress shall conform
to the requirements of Articles 3.2.2.20. to 3.2.2.90. for mezzanines. Occupancy on Roof
1) A portion of a roof that supports an occupancy shall be constructed in conformance with the fire separation requirements of Articles 3.2.2.20. to 3.2.2.90. for floor assemblies, and not the fire-resistance rating for roof assemblies.
Roof-Top Enclosures
1) A roof-top enclosure for elevator machinery or for a service room shall be constructed in accordance with the type of construction required by Articles 3.2.2.20. to 3.2.2.90.
2) A roof-top enclosure for elevator machinery or for a service room, not more than one storey high, is not required to have a fire-resistance rating.
3) A roof-top enclosure for a stairway shall be constructed in accordance with the type of construction required by Articles 3.2.2.20. to 3.2.2.90.
4) A roof-top enclosure for a stairway need not have a fire-resistance rating nor be constructed as a fire separation.
3.2.2.10.
3.2.2.11.
3.2.2.12.
3.2.2.13.
3.2.2.14.
3-44 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 3.2.2.18.
3.2.2.15.
Storeys below Ground
1) If a building is erected entirely below the adjoining finished ground level
and does not extend more than one storey below that ground level, the minimum precautions against fire spread and collapse shall be the same as are required for basements under a building of 1 storey in building height having the same occupancy and building area.
2) If any portion of a building is erected entirely below the adjoining finished ground level and extends more than one storey below that ground level, the following minimum precautions against fire spread and collapse shall be taken:
a) except as permitted by Sentence (3), the basements shall be sprinklered throughout,
b) a floor assembly below the ground level shall be constructed as a fire separation with a fire-resistance rating not less than
i) 3hifthebasementsareusedasGroupEorGroupF,Division 1 or 2 occupancies, or
ii) 2 h if the basements are not used as Group E or Group F, Division 1 or 2 occupancies, and
c) all loadbearing walls, columns and arches shall have a fire-resistance rating not less than that required for the construction that they support.
3) If the first storey of a building is not required to be sprinklered, sprinklers are not required in the storey immediately below the first storey provided the storey below
a) contains only residential occupancies, and
b) has at least one unobstructed access opening conforming to
Sentence 3.2.5.1.(2) installed on that storey for each 15 m of wall length in at least one wall required by this Subsection to face a street.
Heavy Timber Roof Permitted
1) Unless otherwise permitted by Articles 3.2.2.20. to 3.2.2.90., a roof assembly in a building up to 2 storeys in building height is permitted to be of heavy timber construction regardless of building area or type of construction required, provided the building is sprinklered throughout.
2) If Sentence (1) permits a roof assembly to be of heavy timber construction, structural members in the storey immediately below the roof assembly are permitted to be of heavy timber construction.
Arena-Type Building Roof Assembly
1) The requirements for a roof assembly to have a fire-resistance rating are permitted to be waived for a gymnasium, a swimming pool, an arena, or a rink if no part of the roof assembly is less than 6 m above the main floor or balcony and the roof carries no loads other than normal roof loads, including permanent access walks, and ventilating, sound and lighting equipment, except that the restriction concerning minimum distance shall not apply to
a) an inclined and stepped floor ascending from the main floor which is used for seating purposes only, or
b) a balcony used for seating purposes only.
Automatic Sprinkler System Required
1) Except as permitted by Sentence (2), an automatic sprinkler system conforming to the requirements of Articles or Sentences 3.2.4.7., 3.2.4.8., 3.2.4.9. and 3.2.5.12. shall be installed throughout a building regulated by one or more of Articles 3.2.2.20., 3.2.2.21., 3.2.2.22., 3.2.2.23., 3.2.2.24., 3.2.2.26., 3.2.2.27., 3.2.2.29., 3.2.2.31., 3.2.2.33., 3.2.2.36., 3.2.2.37., 3.2.2.38., 3.2.2.39., 3.2.2.40., 3.2.2.41., 3.2.2.42., 3.2.2.43., 3.2.2.44., 3.2.2.46.(3), 3.2.2.46.(4), 3.2.2.47., 3.2.2.48., 3.2.2.51., 3.2.2.54., 3.2.2.55., 3.2.2.57., 3.2.2.58., 3.2.2.59., 3.2.2.61., 3.2.2.63., 3.2.2.64., 3.2.2.65., 3.2.2.67., 3.2.2.69., 3.2.2.70., 3.2.2.71., 3.2.2.72., 3.2.2.74., 3.2.2.75., 3.2.2.77., 3.2.2.79., 3.2.2.80., 3.2.2.82., 3.2.2.84., 3.2.2.86. and 3.2.2.88.
2) If a storey in a building or a floor area is required to have an automatic sprinkler system installed throughout in accordance with one or more of Articles 3.1.2.7.,
3.2.2.16.
3.2.2.17.
3.2.2.18.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 3-45
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.2.2.19.
Division B
3.2.2.19.
3.2.2.20. to 3.2.2.90. or Section 3.3., the automatic sprinkler system shall also be installed throughout all lower storeys in the building notwithstanding permission in Articles 3.2.2.20. to 3.2.2.90. to construct one or more of those storeys without installing automatic sprinkler protection. (See Note A-3.2.2.18.(2).)
Buildings Containing Impeded Egress Zones
1) A building containing an impeded egress zone and conforming to the appropriate requirements of Articles 3.2.2.20. to 3.2.2.90. is not required to conform to the requirements of Articles 3.2.2.36. and 3.2.2.37. for a Group B, Division 1 major occupancy provided
a) the building is sprinklered throughout,
b) it is not more than 1 storey in building height,
c) it does not include
i) a contained use area,
ii) sleeping accommodation,
iii) ahigh-hazardindustrialoccupancy,or iv) a mercantile occupancy,
d) the building area is not more than 6 400 m2 if the building includes a medium-hazard industrial occupancy,
e) the impeded egress zone does not extend beyond the boundaries of the fire compartment in which it is located, and
f) the occupant load of the impeded egress zone is not more than 100.
Group A, Division 1, Any Height, Any Area, Sprinklered
1) Except as permitted by Articles 3.2.2.21. and 3.2.2.22., a building classified as Group A, Division 1 shall conform to Sentence (2).
2) Except as permitted by Article 3.2.2.16., the building referred to in Sentence (1) shall be of noncombustible construction, and
a) except as permitted by Sentences 3.2.2.7.(1) and 3.2.2.18.(2), the building shall be sprinklered throughout,
b) floor assemblies shall be fire separations with a fire-resistance rating not less than 2 h,
c) mezzanines shall have a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h, and
d) loadbearing walls, columns and arches shall have a fire-resistance rating not
less than that required for the supported assembly.
Group A, Division 1, One Storey, Limited Area, Sprinklered
1) A building classified as Group A, Division 1 is permitted to conform to Sentence (2) provided
a) except as permitted by Sentences 3.2.2.7.(1) and 3.2.2.18.(2), the building is sprinklered throughout,
b) it is not more than 1 storey in building height,
c) it has less than 40% of the area of the building as 2 storeys for the purpose of
i) development of productions, including preparation of scenery and costumes and rehearsal of performers,
ii) organizationofperformers,sceneryandsoundequipment,
iii) preparationbyperformersforaperformance,
iv) managerial functions, or
v) toilets,restroomsandsimilarpublicfacilities,
d) it has no occupancy above or below the auditorium other than one which
serves it or is dependent on it,
e) it is not more than 600 m2 in building area, and
f) the occupant load is not more than 600.
3.2.2.20.
3.2.2.21.
3-46 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 3.2.2.24.
3.2.2.22.
2) The building referred to in Sentence (1) is permitted to be of heavy timber construction or noncombustible construction used singly or in combination, and
a) floor assemblies shall be fire separations
i) withafire-resistanceratingnotlessthan45min,or
ii) of heavy timber construction, and
b) loadbearing walls, columns and arches shall
i) have a fire-resistance rating not less than that required for the supported assembly, or
ii) be of heavy timber construction.
Group A, Division 1, One Storey, Sprinklered
1) A building classified as Group A, Division 1 is permitted to conform to Sentence (2) provided
a) except as permitted by Sentences 3.2.2.7.(1) and 3.2.2.18.(2), the building is sprinklered throughout,
b) it is not more than 1 storey in building height,
c) no part of an auditorium floor is more than 5 m above or below grade,
d) no occupancy is above or below the auditorium other than one which serves it or is dependent on it, and
e) the occupant load of the auditorium floor is not more than 300.
2) The building referred to in Sentence (1) is permitted to be of combustible construction or noncombustible construction used singly, or in combination, and
a) floor assemblies shall be fire separations with a fire-resistance rating not less than 45 min,
b) mezzanines shall have, if of combustible construction, a fire-resistance rating not less than 45 min,
c) loadbearing walls, columns and arches supporting an assembly required to have a fire-resistance rating shall
i) haveafire-resistanceratingnotlessthan45min,or ii) beofnoncombustibleconstruction,and
d) loadbearing walls, columns and arches supporting a fire separation shall have a fire-resistance rating not less than that required for the fire separation.
Group A, Division 2, Any Height, Any Area, Sprinklered
1) Except as permitted by Sentences 3.2.2.7.(3) and (4) and Articles 3.2.2.24.
to 3.2.2.28., a building classified as Group A, Division 2 shall conform to Sentence (2).
2) Except as permitted by Article 3.2.2.16., the building referred to in Sentence (1) shall be of noncombustible construction, and
a) except as permitted by Sentences 3.2.2.7.(1) and 3.2.2.18.(2), the building shall be sprinklered throughout,
b) floor assemblies shall be fire separations with a fire-resistance rating not less than 2 h,
c) mezzanines shall have a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h, and
d) loadbearing walls, columns and arches shall have a fire-resistance rating not
less than that required for the supported assembly.
Group A, Division 2, up to 6 Storeys, Any Area, Sprinklered
1) Except as permitted by Sentences 3.2.2.7.(3) and (4), a building classified as Group A, Division 2, that is not limited by building area, is permitted to conform to Sentence (2), provided
a) except as permitted by Sentences 3.2.2.7.(1) and 3.2.2.18.(2), the building is sprinklered throughout, and
b) it is not more than 6 storeys in building height.
2) Except as permitted by Article 3.2.2.16., the building referred to in Sentence (1) shall be of noncombustible construction, and
a) floor assemblies shall be fire separations with a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h,
3.2.2.23.
3.2.2.24.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 3-47
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.2.2.25.
Division B
3.2.2.25.
Group A, Division 2, up to 2 Storeys
1) A building classified as Group A, Division 2 is permitted to conform to Sentence (2) provided
3.2.2.26.
3-48 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
No. of Storeys
Facing 1 Street
1 600 800
Maximum Area, m2 Facing 2 Streets
2 000 1 000
Facing 3 Streets
2 400 1 200
1 2
b) c)
mezzanines shall have a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h, and loadbearing walls, columns and arches shall have a fire-resistance rating not less than that required for the supported assembly.
a) b)
it is not more than 2 storeys in building height, and
it has a building area not more than the value in Table 3.2.2.25.
Table 3.2.2.25.
Maximum Building Area, Group A, Division 2, up to 2 Storeys Forming Part of Sentence 3.2.2.25.(1)
The building referred to in Sentence (1) is permitted to be of combustible construction or noncombustible construction used singly or in combination, and
a) floor assemblies shall be fire separations and, if of combustible construction, shall have a fire-resistance rating not less than 45 min,
b) mezzanines shall have, if of combustible construction, a fire-resistance rating not less than 45 min,
c) roof assemblies shall have, if of combustible construction, a fire-resistance rating not less than 45 min, except that in a building not more than 1 storey in building height, the fire-resistance rating is permitted to be waived provided the roof assembly is constructed as a fire-retardant-treated wood roof system conforming to Article 3.1.14.1., and the building area is not more than
i) 800 m2 if facing one street,
ii) 1 000 m2 if facing 2 streets, or
iii) 1 200 m2 if facing 3 streets, and
d) loadbearing walls, columns and arches supporting an assembly required
to have a fire-resistance rating shall
i) haveafire-resistanceratingnotlessthan45min,or
ii) be of noncombustible construction.
Group A, Division 2, up to 2 Storeys, Increased Area, Sprinklered
1) A building classified as Group A, Division 2 is permitted to conform to Sentence (2) provided
a) except as permitted by Sentences 3.2.2.7.(1) and 3.2.2.18.(2), the building is sprinklered throughout,
b) it is not more than 2 storeys in building height, and
c) it has a building area not more than
i) 4 800 m2 if 1 storey in building height, or ii) 2 400 m2 if 2 storeys in building height.
2) The building referred to in Sentence (1) is permitted to be of combustible construction or noncombustible construction used singly or in combination, and
a) floor assemblies shall be fire separations and, if of combustible construction, shall have a fire-resistance rating not less than 45 min,
b) mezzanines shall have, if of combustible construction, a fire-resistance rating not less than 45 min, and
c) loadbearing walls, columns and arches supporting an assembly required to have a fire-resistance rating shall
i) haveafire-resistanceratingnotlessthan45min,or ii) be of noncombustible construction.
2)
    © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 3.2.2.30.
3.2.2.27.
Group A, Division 2, up to 2 Storeys, Sprinklered
1) A building classified as Group A, Division 2 is permitted to be of combustible construction or noncombustible construction, used singly or in combination, provided
a) except as permitted by Sentences 3.2.2.7.(1) and 3.2.2.18.(2), the building is sprinklered throughout,
b) it is not more than 2 storeys in building height, and
c) it has a building area not more than
i) 2 400 m2 if 1 storey in building height with no basement, ii) 1 200 m2 if 1 storey in building height, or
iii) 600 m2 if 2 storeys in building height.
Group A, Division 2, One Storey
1) A building classified as Group A, Division 2 is permitted to be of combustible construction or noncombustible construction, used singly or in combination, provided
a) it is not more than 1 storey in building height, and
b) except as permitted by Sentence (2), it has a building area not more than
i) 400 m2 if facing one street, ii) 500 m2 if facing 2 streets, or
iii) 600 m2 if facing 3 streets.
2) In a building referred to in Sentence (1) without a basement, the building area limits of Sentence (1) are permitted to be doubled provided a fire separation with a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h is used to separate the building into fire compartments, each one of which does not exceed the limits of Clause (1)(b).
Group A, Division 3, Any Height, Any Area, Sprinklered
1) Except as permitted by Articles 3.2.2.30. to 3.2.2.34., a building classified as
Group A, Division 3 shall conform to Sentence (2).
2) Except as permitted by Article 3.2.2.16., the building referred to in Sentence (1) shall be of noncombustible construction, and
a) except as permitted by Sentences 3.2.2.7.(1) and 3.2.2.18.(2), the building shall be sprinklered throughout,
b) floor assemblies shall be fire separations with a fire-resistance rating not less than 2 h,
c) mezzanines shall have a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h, and
d) loadbearing walls, columns and arches shall have a fire-resistance rating not
less than that required for the supported assembly.
Group A, Division 3, up to 2 Storeys
1) A building classified as Group A, Division 3 is permitted to conform to Sentence (2) provided
3.2.2.28.
3.2.2.29.
3.2.2.30.
a) b)
1 2
2)
it is not more than 2 storeys in building height, and
it has a building area not more than the value in Table 3.2.2.30.
Table 3.2.2.30.
Maximum Building Area, Group A, Division 3, up to 2 Storeys Forming Part of Sentence 3.2.2.30.(1)
No. of Storeys
Facing 1 Street
4 000 2 000
Maximum Area, m2 Facing 2 Streets
5 000 2 500
Facing 3 Streets
6 000 3 000
Except as permitted by Clauses (c) and (d), the building referred to in Sentence (1) shall be of noncombustible construction, and
a) floor assemblies shall be fire separations with a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h,
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 3-49
    © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.2.2.31.
Division B
3.2.2.31.
b) mezzanines shall have a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h,
c) roof assemblies shall
i) haveafire-resistanceratingnotlessthan45min,or ii) be of heavy timber construction, and
d) loadbearing walls, columns and arches shall have a fire-resistance rating not less than that required for the supported assembly, except that arches and structural members within the storey immediately below a roof assembly are permitted to be of heavy timber construction.
3) If intended for occasional use for trade shows and similar exhibition purposes, a building referred to in Sentence (1) that is more than 1 500 m2 in building area shall be sprinklered throughout.
Group A, Division 3, up to 2 Storeys, Sprinklered
1) A building classified as Group A, Division 3 is permitted to conform to Sentence (2) provided
a) except as permitted by Sentences 3.2.2.7.(1) and 3.2.2.18.(2), the building is sprinklered throughout,
b) it is not more than 2 storeys in building height, and
c) it has a building area not more than
i) 12 000 m2 if 1 storey in building height, or ii) 6 000 m2 if 2 storeys in building height.
2) Except as permitted by Clause (c) and Article 3.2.2.16., the building referred to in Sentence (1) shall be of noncombustible construction, and
a) floor assemblies shall be fire separations with a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h,
b) mezzanines shall have a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h, and
c) loadbearing walls, columns and arches shall have a fire-resistance rating not less than that required for the supported assembly, except that arches are
permitted to be of heavy timber construction.
Group A, Division 3, One Storey, Increased Area
1) A building classified as Group A, Division 3 is permitted to conform to Sentence (2) provided
a) it is not more than 1 storey in building height, and
b) it has a building area not more than
i) 2 400 m2 if facing one street, ii) 3 000 m2 if facing 2 streets, or
iii) 3 600 m2 if facing 3 streets.
2) The building referred to in Sentence (1) is permitted to be of combustible construction or noncombustible construction used singly or in combination, and
a) mezzanines shall have, if of combustible construction, a fire-resistance rating not less than 45 min,
b) roof assemblies shall have, if of combustible construction, a fire-resistance rating not less than 45 min, except that the fire-resistance rating is permitted to be waived provided the roof assembly is constructed as a fire-retardant-treated wood roof system conforming to Article 3.1.14.1., and the building area is
not more than
i) 1 200 m2 if facing one street,
ii) 1 500 m2 if facing 2 streets, or iii) 1 800 m2 if facing 3 streets, and
c) loadbearing walls, columns and arches supporting an assembly required to have a fire-resistance rating shall
i) haveafire-resistanceratingnotlessthan45min,or ii) be of noncombustible construction.
3) If intended for occasional use for trade shows and similar exhibition purposes, a building referred to in Sentence (1) that is more than 1 500 m2 in building area shall be sprinklered throughout.
3.2.2.32.
3-50 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 3.2.2.37.
3.2.2.33.
3.2.2.34.
3.2.2.35.
Group A, Division 3, One Storey, Sprinklered
1) A building classified as Group A, Division 3 is permitted to be of combustible construction or noncombustible construction used singly or in combination provided
a) except as permitted by Sentences 3.2.2.7.(1) and 3.2.2.18.(2), the building is
sprinklered throughout,
b) it is not more than 1 storey in building height, and
c) it has a building area not more than 7 200 m2.
Group A, Division 3, One Storey
1) A building classified as Group A, Division 3 is permitted to be of combustible construction or noncombustible construction used singly or in combination provided
a) it is not more than 1 storey in building height, and
b) it has a building area not more than
i) 1 000 m2 if facing one street, ii) 1 250 m2 if facing 2 streets, or
iii) 1 500 m2 if facing 3 streets.
Group A, Division 4
1) Except as permitted by Sentences (2) and (3), a building classified as Group A, Division 4 shall be of noncombustible construction.
2) Roof assemblies and supporting arches and columns are permitted to be of heavy timber construction.
3) A building classified as Group A, Division 4 is permitted to be of combustible construction provided
a) the occupant load is less than 1 500, and
b) the building has a limiting distance not less than 6 m.
4) Sprinklers shall be installed in all spaces below tiers of seats in a building classified as Group A, Division 4 if those spaces are used for occupancy. (See Note A-3.2.2.35.(4).)
Group B, Division 1, Any Height, Any Area, Sprinklered
1) Except as permitted by Article 3.2.2.37., a building classified as Group B,
Division 1 shall conform to Sentence (2).
2) Except as permitted by Article 3.2.2.16., the building referred to in Sentence (1) shall be of noncombustible construction, and
a) except as permitted by Sentences 3.2.2.7.(1) and 3.2.2.18.(2), the building shall be sprinklered throughout,
b) floor assemblies shall be fire separations with a fire-resistance rating not less than 2 h,
c) mezzanines shall have a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h, and
d) loadbearing walls, columns and arches shall have a fire-resistance rating not
less than that required for the supported assembly.
Group B, Division 1, up to 3 Storeys, Sprinklered
1) A building classified as Group B, Division 1 is permitted to conform to Sentence (2) provided
a) except as permitted by Sentences 3.2.2.7.(1) and 3.2.2.18.(2), the building is sprinklered throughout,
b) it is not more than 3 storeys in building height, and
c) it has a building area
i) that is not limited if the building is not more than 1 storey in building height,
ii) not more than 12 000 m2 if 2 storeys in building height, or iii) not more than 8 000 m2 if 3 storeys in building height.
3.2.2.36.
3.2.2.37.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division B 3-51
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.2.2.38.
Division B
3.2.2.38.
2) Except as permitted by Article 3.2.2.16., the building referred to in Sentence (1) shall be of noncombustible construction, and
a) floor assemblies shall be fire separations with a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h,
b) mezzanines shall have a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h, and
c) loadbearing walls, columns and arches shall have a fire-resistance rating not
less than that required for the supported assembly.
Group B, Division 2, Any Height, Any Area, Sprinklered
1) Except as permitted by Articles 3.2.2.39. to 3.2.2.41., a building classified as
Group B, Division 2 shall conform to Sentence (2).
2) Except as permitted by Article 3.2.2.16., the building referred to in Sentence (1) shall be of noncombustible construction, and
a) except as permitted by Sentences 3.2.2.7.(1) and 3.2.2.18.(2), the building shall be sprinklered throughout,
b) floor assemblies shall be fire separations with a fire-resistance rating not less than 2 h,
c) mezzanines shall have a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h, and
d) loadbearing walls, columns and arches shall have a fire-resistance rating not
less than that required for the supported assembly.
Group B, Division 2, up to 3 Storeys, Sprinklered
1) A building classified as Group B, Division 2 is permitted to conform to Sentence (2) provided
a) except as permitted by Sentences 3.2.2.7.(1) and 3.2.2.18.(2), the building is sprinklered throughout,
b) it is not more than 3 storeys in building height, and
c) it has a building area
i) that is not limited if the building is not more than 1 storey in building height,
ii) not more than 12 000 m2 if 2 storeys in building height, or
iii) not more than 8 000 m2 if 3 storeys in building height.
2) Except as permitted by Article 3.2.2.16., the building referred to in Sentence (1) shall be of noncombustible construction, and
a) floor assemblies shall be fire separations with a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h,
b) mezzanines shall have a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h, and
c) loadbearing walls, columns and arches shall have a fire-resistance rating not
less than that required for the supported assembly.
Group B, Division 2, up to 2 Storeys, Sprinklered
1) A building classified as Group B, Division 2 is permitted to conform to Sentence (2) provided
a) except as permitted by Sentences 3.2.2.7.(1) and 3.2.2.18.(2), the building is sprinklered throughout,
b) it is not more than 2 storeys in building height, and
c) it has a building area not more than
i) 2 400 m2 if 1 storey in building height, or ii) 1 600 m2 if 2 storeys in building height.
2) The building referred to in Sentence (1) is permitted to be of combustible construction or noncombustible construction used singly or in combination, and
a) floor assemblies shall be fire separations with a fire-resistance rating not less than 45 min,
b) mezzanines shall have, if of combustible construction, a fire-resistance rating not less than 45 min, and
c) loadbearing walls, columns and arches shall have a fire-resistance rating not less than that required for the supported assembly.
3.2.2.39.
3.2.2.40.
3-52 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 3.2.2.44.
3.2.2.41.
3.2.2.42.
Group B, Division 2, One Storey, Sprinklered
1) A building classified as Group B, Division 2 is permitted to be of combustible construction or noncombustible construction, used singly or in combination, provided
a) except as permitted by Sentences 3.2.2.7.(1) and 3.2.2.18.(2), the building is sprinklered throughout,
b) it is not more than 1 storey in building height, and
c) it has a building area not more than 500 m2.
Group B, Division 3, Any Height, Any Area, Sprinklered
1) Except as permitted by Articles 3.2.2.43. to 3.2.2.46., a building classified as
Group B, Division 3 shall conform to Sentence (2).
2) Except as permitted by Article 3.2.2.16., the building referred to in Sentence (1) shall be of noncombustible construction, and
a) except as permitted by Sentences 3.2.2.7.(1) and 3.2.2.18.(2), the building shall be sprinklered throughout,
b) floor assemblies shall be fire separations with a fire-resistance rating not less than 2 h,
c) mezzanines shall have a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h, and
d) loadbearing walls, columns and arches shall have a fire-resistance rating not
less than that required for the supported assembly.
Group B, Division 3, up to 3 Storeys (Noncombustible), Sprinklered
1) A building classified as Group B, Division 3 is permitted to conform to Sentence (2) provided
a) except as permitted by Sentences 3.2.2.7.(1) and 3.2.2.18.(2), the building is sprinklered throughout,
b) it is not more than 3 storeys in building height, and
c) it has a building area
i) that is not limited if the building is not more than 1 storey in building height,
ii) not more than 12 000 m2 if 2 storeys in building height, or iii) not more than 8 000 m2 if 3 storeys in building height.
2) Except as permitted by Article 3.2.2.16., the building referred to in Sentence (1) shall be of noncombustible construction, and
a) floor assemblies shall be fire separations with a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h,
b) mezzanines shall have a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h, and
c) loadbearing walls, columns and arches shall have a fire-resistance rating not
less than that required for the supported assembly.
Group B, Division 3, up to 2 Storeys, Sprinklered
1) A building classified as Group B, Division 3 is permitted to conform to Sentence (2) provided
a) except as permitted by Sentences 3.2.2.7.(1) and 3.2.2.18.(2), the building is sprinklered throughout,
b) it is not more than 2 storeys in building height,
c) it has a building area not more than
i) 2 400 m2 if 1 storey in building height, or ii) 1 600 m2 if 2 storeys in building height, and
d) it has no mezzanines or interconnected floor spaces.
2) The building referred to in Sentence (1) is permitted to be of combustible construction and
a) floor assemblies shall be fire separations with a fire-resistance rating not less than 45 min, and
b) deleted,
c) loadbearing walls, columns and arches shall have a fire-resistance rating not
less than that required for the supported assembly.
3.2.2.43.
3.2.2.44.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division B 3-53
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.2.2.45.
Division B
3.2.2.45.
Group B, Division 3, 1 Storey
1) A building classified as Group B, Division 3 is permitted to conform to Sentence (2) provided
a) it is not more than 1 storey in building height,
b) it has a building area not more than 600 m2,
c) it has residential accommodation for not more than 16 persons,
d) it has not more than 8 dwelling units, and
e) it has no mezzanines or interconnected floor spaces.
2) The building referred to in Sentence (1) is permitted to be of combustible construction and
a) floor assemblies shall be fire separations with a fire-resistance rating not less than 45 min,
b) its roof shall have a fire-resistance rating not less than 45 min, and
c) loadbearing walls, columns and arches shall have a fire-resistance rating not
less than that required for the supported assembly.
Group B, Division 3, up to 2 Storeys
1) A building classified as Group B, Division 3 is permitted to conform to Sentence (2), provided
a) it is not more than 2 storeys in building height,
b) the building consists of a single-family type care occupancy, and
c) except as provided in Sentence (4), each storey accessible to the persons provided with lodging is served by 2 means of egress, one of which
i) isanexteriordoorwayconformingtoArticle3.3.3.8.,and ii) leadstoanotherfloorareaseparatedfromadjoiningspaces
by a fire separation.
2) The building referred to in Sentence (1) is permitted to be of combustible construction, and
a) the floor structure shall be entirely covered by gypsum board, and
b) the loadbearing walls, columns and arches shall be covered by gypsum board.
3) A single-family type care occupancy other than a single-family type private seniors’ residence shall be sprinklered throughout.
4) The exterior doorway on the second storey and the separation of adjoining spaces of the second means of egress are not required in a single-family type private seniors’ residence that is sprinklered throughout.
Group C, Any Height, Any Area, Sprinklered
1) Except as permitted by Articles 3.2.2.48. to 3.2.2.54., a building classified as
Group C shall conform to Sentence (2).
2) Except as permitted by Article 3.2.2.16., the building referred to in Sentence (1) shall be of noncombustible construction, and
a) except as permitted by Sentences 3.2.2.7.(1) and 3.2.2.18.(2), the building shall be sprinklered throughout,
b) except as permitted by Sentence (3), floor assemblies shall be fire separations with a fire-resistance rating not less than 2 h,
c) mezzanines shall have a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h, and
d) loadbearing walls, columns and arches shall have a fire-resistance rating not
less than that required for the supported assembly.
3) In a building that contains dwelling units that have more than one storey, subject to the requirements of Sentence 3.3.4.2.(3), the floor assemblies, including floors
over basements, which are entirely contained within these dwelling units, shall have a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h but need not be constructed as fire separations.
3.2.2.46.
3.2.2.47.
3-54 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
  © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 3.2.2.49.
3.2.2.48.
Group C, up to 6 Storeys, Sprinklered, Noncombustible Construction
1) A building classified as Group C is permitted to conform to Sentence (2) provided
a) except as permitted by Sentences 3.2.2.7.(1) and 3.2.2.18.(2), the building is sprinklered throughout,
b) it is not more than 6 storeys in building height, and
c) it has a building area
i) thatisnotlimitedifthebuildingisnotmorethan2storeys in building height,
ii) not more than 12 000 m2 if 3 storeys in building height,
iii) not more than 9 000 m2 if 4 storeys in building height,
iv) not more than 7 200 m2 if 5 storeys in building height, or
v) not more than 6 000 m2 if 6 storeys in building height.
2) Except as permitted by Article 3.2.2.16., the building referred to in Sentence (1) shall be of noncombustible construction, and
a) except as permitted by Sentence (3), floor assemblies shall be fire separations with a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h,
b) mezzanines shall have a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h, and
c) loadbearing walls, columns and arches shall have a fire-resistance rating not
less than that required for the supported assembly.
3) In a building that contains dwelling units that have more than one storey, subject to the requirements of Sentence 3.3.4.2.(3), the floor assemblies, including floors
over basements, which are entirely contained within these dwelling units, shall have a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h but need not be constructed as fire separations.
Group C, up to 3 Storeys, Noncombustible Construction
1) A building classified as Group C is permitted to conform to Sentence (2) provided
3.2.2.49.
a) b)
1 2 3
2)
and a)
b) c) d)
it is not more than 3 storeys in building height, and
it has a building area not more than the value in Table 3.2.2.49.
Table 3.2.2.49.
Maximum Building Area, Group C, up to 3 Storeys Forming Part of Sentence 3.2.2.49.(1)
No. of Storeys
Facing 1 Street
not limited 6 000
4 000
Maximum Area, m2 Facing 2 Streets
not limited not limited 5 000
Facing 3 Streets
not limited not limited 6 000
The building referred to in Sentence (1) shall be of noncombustible construction,
except as permitted by Sentence (3), floor assemblies shall be fire separations with a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h,
mezzanines shall have a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h,
roof assemblies shall have a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h, and loadbearing walls, columns and arches shall have a fire-resistance rating not less than that required for the supported assembly.
In a building that contains dwelling units that have more than one storey, subject to the requirements of Sentence 3.3.4.2.(3), the floor assemblies, including floors
over basements, which are entirely contained within these dwelling units, shall have a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h but need not be constructed as fire separations.
3)
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 3-55
    © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.2.2.50.
Division B
3.2.2.50.
Group C, up to 6 Storeys, Sprinklered
1) A building classified as Group C is permitted to conform to Sentence (2), provided
a) the building is sprinklered throughout,
b) it is not more than 6 storeys in building height,
c) it has a height
i) not more than 18 m measured between grade and the
uppermost floor level, and
ii) notmorethan25m,measuredbetweengradeandthehighest
point of the roof assembly (see Note A-3.2.2.50.(1)(c)(ii)),
and
d) it has a building area not more than
i) 9 000 m2 if 1 storey in building height, ii) 4 500 m2 if 2 storeys in building height, iii) 3 000 m2 if 3 storeys in building height, iv) 2 250 m2 if 4 storeys in building height,
v) 1 800 m2 if 5 storeys in building height, or vi) 1 500 m2 if 6 storeys in building height.
2) The building referred to in Sentence (1) is permitted to be of combustible construction, and
a) except as permitted in Sentence (3), floor assemblies shall be fire separations with a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h,
b) the roof assembly shall have a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h,
c) exit stairwells and their rooftop enclosure extension must be of
noncombustible construction,
d) mezzanines shall have a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h,
e) loadbearing walls, columns and arches shall have a fire-resistance rating not less than that required for the supported assembly,
f) except as permitted in Sentence (4), any floor area of a storage garage shall be of noncombustible construction,
g) cladding on the exterior wall shall be noncombustible not less than 2 m above and 1 m either side of an unprotected opening and any opening or element capable of spreading fire, and
h) pipes, wires, cables and ducts must be noncombustible or conform to Articles 3.1.5.18., 3.1.5.21. and 3.1.5.23.
3) In a building that contains dwelling units that have more than one storey, subject to Sentence 3.3.4.2.(3), the floor assemblies, including floors over basements, which are entirely contained within these dwelling units, shall have a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h but need not be constructed as fire separations.
4) A floor area of a storage garage conform to Sentence 3.3.4.2.(4) may be of combustible construction.
Group C, up to 4 Storeys, Sprinklered
1) A building classified as Group C is permitted to conform to Sentence (2) provided
a) except as permitted by Sentences 3.2.2.7.(1) and 3.2.2.18.(2), the building is sprinklered throughout,
b) it is not more than 4 storeys in building height, and
c) it has a building area not more than
i) 7 200 m2 if 1 storey in building height, ii) 3 600 m2 if 2 storeys in building height,
iii) 2 400 m2 if 3 storeys in building height, or iv) 1 800 m2 if 4 storeys in building height.
2) The building referred to in Sentence (1) is permitted to be of combustible construction or noncombustible construction used singly or in combination, and
a) except as permitted by Sentences (3) and (4), floor assemblies shall be fire separations with a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h,
3.2.2.51.
3-56 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
   © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
3.2.2.53.
3.2.2.52.
3.2.2.53.
a) except as permitted by Sentences (3) and (4), floor assemblies shall be fire separations with a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h,
b) mezzanines shall have a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h,
c) roof assemblies shall have a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h, and
d) loadbearing walls, columns, and arches shall have a fire-resistance rating not less than that required for the supported assembly.
3) In a building that contains dwelling units that have more than one storey, subject to the requirements of Sentence 3.3.4.2.(3), the floor assemblies, including floors
over basements, which are entirely contained within these dwelling units, shall have a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h but need not be constructed as fire separations.
4) In a building in which there is no dwelling unit above another dwelling unit, the fire-resistance rating for floor assemblies entirely within the dwelling unit is waived.
Group C, up to 3 Storeys
1) A building classified as Group C is permitted to conform to Sentence (2) provided
a) it is not more than 3 storeys in building height, and
b) it has a building area not more than the value in Table 3.2.2.53.
No. of Storeys
Facing 1 Street
2 400 1 200 800
Maximum Area, m2 Facing 2 Streets
3 000 1 500 1 000
Facing 3 Streets
3 600 1 800 1 200
1 2 3
b) c)
mezzanines shall have a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h, and loadbearing walls, columns and arches shall have a fire-resistance rating not less than that required for the supported assembly.
In a building that contains dwelling units that have more than one storey, subject to the requirements of Sentence 3.3.4.2.(3), the floor assemblies, including floors
over basements, which are entirely contained within these dwelling units, shall have a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h but need not be constructed as fire separations.
4) In a building in which there is no dwelling unit above another dwelling unit, the fire-resistance rating for floor assemblies entirely within the dwelling unit is waived.
Group C, up to 3 Storeys, Increased Area
1) A building classified as Group C is permitted to conform to Sentence (2) provided
3)
a) b)
it is not more than 3 storeys in building height, and
it has a building area not more than the value in Table 3.2.2.52.
Table 3.2.2.52.
Maximum Building Area, Group C, up to 3 Storeys, Increased Area Forming Part of Sentence 3.2.2.52.(1)
The building referred to in Sentence (1) is permitted to be of combustible construction or noncombustible construction used singly or in combination, and
2)
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division B 3-57
    © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.2.2.54.
Division B
3.2.2.54.
a) except as permitted by Sentences (3) and (4), floor assemblies shall be fire separations with a fire-resistance rating not less than 45 min,
b) mezzanines shall have, if of combustible construction, a fire-resistance rating not less than 45 min, and
c) loadbearing walls, columns and arches shall have a fire-resistance rating not less than that required for the supported assembly.
3) In a building that contains dwelling units that have more than one storey, subject to the requirements of Sentence 3.3.4.2.(3), the floor assemblies, including floors
over basements, which are entirely contained within these dwelling units, shall have a fire-resistance rating not less than 45 min but need not be constructed as fire separations.
4) In a building in which there is no dwelling unit above another dwelling unit, the fire-resistance rating for floor assemblies entirely within the dwelling unit is waived.
Group C, up to 3 Storeys, Sprinklered
1) A building classified as Group C is permitted to conform to Sentence (2) provided
a) except as permitted by Sentences 3.2.2.7.(1) and 3.2.2.18.(2), the building is sprinklered throughout,
b) it is not more than 3 storeys in building height, and
c) it has a building area not more than
i) 5 400 m2 if 1 storey in building height,
ii) 2 700 m2 if 2 storeys in building height, or
iii) 1 800 m2 if 3 storeys in building height.
2) The building referred to in Sentence (1) is permitted to be of combustible construction or noncombustible construction used singly or in combination, and
a) except as permitted by Sentences (3) and (4), floor assemblies shall be fire separations with a fire-resistance rating not less than 45 min,
b) mezzanines shall have, if of combustible construction, a fire-resistance rating not less than 45 min, and
c) loadbearing walls, columns and arches shall have a fire-resistance rating not less than that required for the supported assembly.
3) In a building that contains dwelling units that have more than one storey, subject to the requirements of Sentence 3.3.4.2.(3), the floor assemblies, including floors
over basements, which are entirely contained within these dwelling units, shall have a fire-resistance rating not less than 45 min but need not be constructed as fire separations.
4) In a building in which there is no dwelling unit above another dwelling unit, the fire-resistance rating for floor assemblies entirely within the dwelling unit is waived.
Group D, Any Height, Any Area, Sprinklered
1) Except as permitted by Articles 3.2.2.56. to 3.2.2.63., a building classified as
Group D shall conform to Sentence (2).
3.2.2.55.
3-58 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
No. of Storeys
Facing 1 Street
1 800 900 600
Maximum Area, m2 Facing 2 Streets
2 250 1 125 750
Facing 3 Streets
2 700 1 350 900
1 2 3
Table 3.2.2.53.
Maximum Building Area, Group C, up to 3 Storeys Forming Part of Sentence 3.2.2.53.(1)
The building referred to in Sentence (1) is permitted to be of combustible construction or noncombustible construction used singly or in combination, and
2)
    © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 3.2.2.57.
3.2.2.56.
2) Except as permitted by Article 3.2.2.16., the building referred to in Sentence (1) shall be of noncombustible construction, and
a) except as permitted by Sentences 3.2.2.7.(1) and 3.2.2.18.(2), the building shall be sprinklered throughout,
b) floor assemblies shall be fire separations with a fire-resistance rating not less than 2 h,
c) mezzanines shall have a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h, and
d) loadbearing walls, columns and arches shall have a fire-resistance rating not
less than that required for the supported assembly.
Group D, up to 6 Storeys
1) A building classified as Group D is permitted to conform to Sentence (2) provided
3.2.2.57.
Group D, up to 6 Storeys, Sprinklered, Noncombustible Construction
1) A building classified as Group D is permitted to conform to Sentence (2) provided
a) except as permitted by Sentences 3.2.2.7.(1) and 3.2.2.18.(2), the building is sprinklered throughout,
b) it is not more than 6 storeys in building height, and
c) it has a building area
i) thatisnotlimitedifthebuildingisnotmorethan2storeys in building height,
ii) not more than 14 400 m2 if 3 storeys in building height,
iii) not more than 10 800 m2 if 4 storeys in building height,
iv) not more than 8 640 m2 if 5 storeys in building height, or
v) not more than 7 200 m2 if 6 storeys in building height.
No. of Storeys
Facing 1 Street
not limited 7 200
4 800
3 600
2 880
2 400
Maximum Area, m2 Facing 2 Streets
not limited not limited 6 000
4 500
3 600
3 000
Facing 3 Streets
not limited not limited 7 200
5 400
4 320
3 600
1 2 3 4 5 6
2)
and a)
b) c)
d)
The building referred to in Sentence (1) shall be of noncombustible construction,
floor assemblies shall be fire separations with a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h,
mezzanines shall have a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h,
roof assemblies shall have a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h, except that in a building not more than 1 storey in building height this requirement is waived, and
loadbearing walls, columns and arches shall have a fire-resistance rating not less than that required for the supported assembly.
a) b)
it is not more than 6 storeys in building height, and
it has a building area not more than the value in Table 3.2.2.56.
Table 3.2.2.56.
Maximum Building Area, Group D, up to 6 Storeys Forming Part of Sentence 3.2.2.56.(1)
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division B 3-59
    © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.2.2.58.
Division B
3.2.2.58.
2) Except as permitted by Article 3.2.2.16., the building referred to in Sentence (1) shall be of noncombustible construction, and
a) floor assemblies shall be fire separations with a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h,
b) mezzanines shall have a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h, and
c) loadbearing walls, columns and arches shall have a fire-resistance rating not
less than that required for the supported assembly.
Group D, up to 6 Storeys, Sprinklered
1) A building classified as Group D is permitted to conform to Sentence (2), provided
a) the building is sprinklered throughout,
b) it is not more than 6 storeys in building height,
c) it has a height
i) not more than 18 m measured between grade and the
uppermost floor level, and
ii) notmorethan25mbetweengradeandthehighestpointof
the roof assembly (see Note A-3.2.2.50.(1)(c)(ii)), and
d) it has a building area not more than
i) 18 000 m2 if 1 storey in building height, ii) 9 000 m2 if 2 storeys in building height, iii) 6 000 m2 if 3 storeys in building height, iv) 4 500 m2 if 4 storeys in building height,
v) 3 600 m2 if 5 storeys in building height, or vi) 3 000 m2 if 6 storeys in building height.
2) The building referred to in Sentence (1) is permitted to be of combustible construction, and
a) floor assemblies shall be fire separations with a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h,
b) the roof assembly shall have a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h,
c) exit stairwells and their rooftop enclosure extension must be of
noncombustible construction,
d) mezzanines shall have a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h,
e) loadbearing walls, columns and arches shall have a fire-resistance rating not less than that required for the supported assembly,
f) any floor area of a storage garage shall be of noncombustible construction,
g) cladding on the exterior wall shall be noncombustible not less than 2 m above
and 1 m either side of an unprotected opening and any opening or element
capable of spreading fire, and
h) pipes, wires, cables and ducts must be noncombustible or conform to
Articles 3.1.5.18., 3.1.5.21. and 3.1.5.23.
Group D, up to 4 Storeys, Sprinklered
1) A building classified as Group D is permitted to conform to Sentence (2) provided
a) except as permitted by Sentences 3.2.2.7.(1) and 3.2.2.18.(2), the building is sprinklered throughout,
b) it is not more than 4 storeys in building height, and
c) it has a building area not more than 3 600 m2.
2) The building referred to in Sentence (1) is permitted to be of combustible construction or noncombustible construction used singly or in combination, and
a) floor assemblies shall be fire separations with a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h,
b) mezzanines shall have a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h, and
c) loadbearing walls, columns and arches shall have a fire-resistance rating not
less than that required for the supported assembly.
3.2.2.59.
3-60 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
   © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 3.2.2.61.
3.2.2.60.
Group D, up to 3 Storeys
1) A building classified as Group D is permitted to conform to Sentence (2) provided
3.2.2.61.
a) floor assemblies shall be fire separations and, if of combustible construction, shall have a fire-resistance rating not less than 45 min,
b) mezzanines shall have, if of combustible construction, a fire-resistance rating not less than 45 min,
c) roof assemblies shall have, if of combustible construction, a fire-resistance rating not less than 45 min, except that in a building not more than 1 storey in building height, the fire-resistance rating is permitted to be waived provided the roof assembly is constructed as a fire-retardant-treated wood roof system conforming to Article 3.1.14.1. and the building area is not more than
i) 2 400 m2 if facing one street, ii) 3 000 m2 if facing 2 streets, or
iii) 3 600 m2 if facing 3 streets, and
d) loadbearing walls, columns and arches supporting an assembly required
to have a fire-resistance rating shall
i) haveafire-resistanceratingnotlessthan45min,or
ii) be of noncombustible construction.
Group D, up to 3 Storeys, Sprinklered
1) A building classified as Group D is permitted to conform to Sentence (2) provided
a) except as permitted by Sentences 3.2.2.7.(1) and 3.2.2.18.(2), the building is sprinklered throughout,
b) it is not more than 3 storeys in building height, and
c) it has a building area not more than
i) 14 400 m2 if 1 storey in building height, ii) 7 200 m2 if 2 storeys in building height, or
iii) 4 800 m2 if 3 storeys in building height.
2) The building referred to in Sentence (1) is permitted to be of combustible construction or noncombustible construction used singly or in combination, and
a) floor assemblies shall be fire separations and, if of combustible construction, shall have a fire-resistance rating not less than 45 min,
b) mezzanines shall have, if of combustible construction, a fire-resistance rating not less than 45 min, and
c) loadbearing walls, columns and arches supporting an assembly required to have a fire-resistance rating shall
i) haveafire-resistanceratingnotlessthan45min,or ii) be of noncombustible construction.
No. of Storeys
Facing 1 Street
4 800 2 400 1 600
Maximum Area, m2 Facing 2 Streets
6 000 3 000 2 000
Facing 3 Streets
7 200 3 600 2 400
1 2 3
a) b)
it is not more than 3 storeys in building height, and
it has a building area not more than the value in Table 3.2.2.60.
Table 3.2.2.60.
Maximum Building Area, Group D, up to 3 Storeys Forming Part of Sentence 3.2.2.60.(1)
The building referred to in Sentence (1) is permitted to be of combustible construction or noncombustible construction used singly or in combination, and
2)
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division B 3-61
    © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.2.2.62.
Division B
3.2.2.62.
Group D, up to 2 Storeys
1) A building classified as Group D is permitted to conform to Sentence (2) provided
3.2.2.63.
a) floor assemblies shall be fire separations and, if of combustible construction, shall have a fire-resistance rating not less than 45 min, and
b) loadbearing walls, columns and arches supporting an assembly required to have a fire-resistance rating shall
i) haveafire-resistanceratingnotlessthan45min,or ii) be of noncombustible construction.
Group D, up to 2 Storeys, Sprinklered
1) A building classified as Group D is permitted to conform to Sentence (2) provided
a) except as permitted by Sentences 3.2.2.7.(1) and 3.2.2.18.(2), the building is sprinklered throughout,
b) it is not more than 2 storeys in building height, and
c) it has a building area not more than
i) 3 000 m2 if 1 storey in building height, or ii) 2 400 m2 if 2 storeys in building height.
2) The building referred to in Sentence (1) is permitted to be of combustible construction or noncombustible construction used singly or in combination, and
a) floor assemblies shall be fire separations and, if of combustible construction, shall have a fire-resistance rating not less than 45 min, and
b) loadbearing walls, columns and arches supporting an assembly required to have a fire-resistance rating shall
i) haveafire-resistanceratingnotlessthan45min,or ii) be of noncombustible construction.
Group E, Any Height, Any Area, Sprinklered
1) Except as permitted by Sentences 3.2.2.7.(3) and (4) and Articles 3.2.2.65.
to 3.2.2.69., a building classified as Group E shall conform to Sentence (2).
2) Except as permitted by Article 3.2.2.16., the building referred to in Sentence (1) shall be of noncombustible construction, and
a) except as permitted by Sentences 3.2.2.7.(1) and 3.2.2.18.(2), the building shall be sprinklered throughout,
b) floor assemblies shall be fire separations with a fire-resistance rating not less than 2 h,
c) mezzanines shall have a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h, and
d) loadbearing walls, columns and arches shall have a fire-resistance rating not
less than that required for the supported assembly.
3.2.2.64.
3-62 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
No. of Storeys
Facing 1 Street
1 000 800
Maximum Area, m2 Facing 2 Streets
1 250 1 000
Facing 3 Streets
1 500 1 200
1 2
a) b)
it is not more than 2 storeys in building height, and
it has a building area not more than the value in Table 3.2.2.62.
Table 3.2.2.62.
Maximum Building Area, Group D, up to 2 Storeys Forming Part of Sentence 3.2.2.62.(1)
The building referred to in Sentence (1) is permitted to be of combustible construction or noncombustible construction used singly or in combination, and
2)
    © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 3.2.2.67.
3.2.2.65.
Group E, up to 4 Storeys, Sprinklered
1) A building classified as Group E is permitted to conform to Sentence (2) provided
a) except as permitted by Sentences 3.2.2.7.(1) and 3.2.2.18.(2), the building is sprinklered throughout,
b) it is not more than 4 storeys in building height, and
c) it has a building area not more than 1 800 m2.
2) The building referred to in Sentence (1) is permitted to be of combustible construction or noncombustible construction used singly or in combination, and
a) floor assemblies shall be fire separations with a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h,
b) mezzanines shall have a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h, and
c) loadbearing walls, columns and arches shall have a fire-resistance rating not
less than that required for the supported assembly.
Group E, up to 3 Storeys
1) A building classified as Group E is permitted to conform to Sentence (2) provided
3.2.2.66.
3.2.2.67.
Group E, up to 3 Storeys, Sprinklered
1) A building classified as Group E is permitted to conform to Sentence (2) provided
a) except as permitted by Sentences 3.2.2.7.(1) and 3.2.2.18.(2), the building is sprinklered throughout,
b) it is not more than 3 storeys in building height, and
c) it has a building area not more than
No. of Storeys
Facing 1 Street
1 500 1 200 800
Maximum Area, m2 Facing 2 Streets
1 500 1 500 1 000
Facing 3 Streets
1 500 1 500 1 500
1 2 3
a) b)
it is not more than 3 storeys in building height, and
it has a building area not more than the value in Table 3.2.2.66.
Table 3.2.2.66.
Maximum Building Area, Group E, up to 3 Storeys Forming Part of Sentence 3.2.2.66.(1)
The building referred to in Sentence (1) is permitted to be of combustible construction or noncombustible construction used singly or in combination, and
2)
a) floor assemblies shall be fire separations with a fire-resistance rating not less than 45 min,
b) mezzanines shall have, if of combustible construction, a fire-resistance rating not less than 45 min,
c) roof assemblies shall have a fire-resistance rating not less than 45 min, except that in a building not more than 1 storey in building height, the fire-resistance rating is permitted to be waived provided the roof assembly is of noncombustible construction or is constructed as a fire-retardant-treated wood roof system conforming to Article 3.1.14.1.,
d) loadbearing walls, columns and arches supporting an assembly required to have a fire-resistance rating shall
i) haveafire-resistanceratingnotlessthan45min,or ii) beofnoncombustibleconstruction,and
e) loadbearing walls, columns and arches supporting a fire separation shall have a fire-resistance rating not less than that required for the fire separation.
i) 7 200 m2 if 1 storey in building height,
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division B 3-63
    © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.2.2.68.
Division B
3.2.2.68.
ii) 3 600 m2 if 2 storeys in building height, or iii) 2 400 m2 if 3 storeys in building height.
2) The building referred to in Sentence (1) is permitted to be of combustible construction or noncombustible construction used singly or in combination, and
a) floor assemblies shall be fire separations with a fire-resistance rating not less than 45 min,
b) mezzanines shall have, if of combustible construction, a fire-resistance rating not less than 45 min,
c) loadbearing walls, columns and arches supporting an assembly required to have a fire-resistance rating shall
i) haveafire-resistanceratingnotlessthan45min,or ii) beofnoncombustibleconstruction,and
d) loadbearing walls, columns and arches supporting a fire separation shall have a fire-resistance rating not less than that required for the fire separation.
Group E, up to 2 Storeys
1) A building classified as Group E is permitted to conform to Sentence (2) provided
3.2.2.69.
a) floor assemblies shall be fire separations with a fire-resistance rating not less than 45 min, and
b) loadbearing walls, columns and arches shall have a fire-resistance rating not less than that required for the supported assembly.
Group E, up to 2 Storeys, Sprinklered
1) A building classified as Group E is permitted to conform to Sentence (2) provided
a) except as permitted by Sentences 3.2.2.7.(1) and 3.2.2.18.(2), the building is sprinklered throughout,
b) it is not more than 2 storeys in building height, and
c) it has a building area not more than
i) 3 000 m2 if 1 storey in building height, or ii) 1 800 m2 if 2 storeys in building height.
2) The building referred to in Sentence (1) is permitted to be of combustible construction or noncombustible construction used singly or in combination, and
3-64 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
No. of Storeys
Facing 1 Street
1 000 600
Maximum Area, m2 Facing 2 Streets
1 250 750
Facing 3 Streets
1 500 900
1 2
a) b)
it is not more than 2 storeys in building height, and
it has a building area not more than the value in Table 3.2.2.68.
Table 3.2.2.68.
Maximum Building Area, Group E, up to 2 Storeys Forming Part of Sentence 3.2.2.68.(1)
The building referred to in Sentence (1) is permitted to be of combustible construction or noncombustible construction used singly or in combination, and
2)
a) b)
floor assemblies shall be fire separations with a fire-resistance rating not less than 45 min, and
loadbearing walls, columns and arches shall have a fire-resistance rating not less than that required for the supported assembly.
    © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 3.2.2.72.
3.2.2.70.
Group F, Division 1, up to 4 Storeys, Sprinklered
1) Except as permitted by Articles 3.2.2.71. to 3.2.2.73., a building classified as Group F, Division 1 shall conform to Sentence (2) provided
a) it is not more than 4 storeys in building height, and b) it has a building area not more than
i) 9 000 m2 if 1 storey in building height, ii) 4 500 m2 if 2 storeys in building height,
iii) 3 000 m2 if 3 storeys in building height, or iv) 2 250 m2 if 4 storeys in building height.
2) Except as permitted by Article 3.2.2.16., the building referred to in Sentence (1) shall be of noncombustible construction, and
a) except as permitted by Sentences 3.2.2.7.(1) and 3.2.2.18.(2), the building shall be sprinklered throughout,
b) floor assemblies shall be fire separations with a fire-resistance rating not less than 2 h,
c) mezzanines shall have a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h, and
d) loadbearing walls, columns and arches shall have a fire-resistance rating not
less than that required for the supported assembly.
Group F, Division 1, up to 3 Storeys, Sprinklered
1) A building classified as Group F, Division 1 is permitted to conform to Sentence (2) provided
a) except as permitted by Sentences 3.2.2.7.(1) and 3.2.2.18.(2), the building is sprinklered throughout,
b) it is not more than 3 storeys in building height, and
c) it has a building area not more than
i) 3 600 m2 if 1 storey in building height,
ii) 1 800 m2 if 2 storeys in building height, or
iii) 1 200 m2 if 3 storeys in building height.
2) The building referred to in Sentence (1) is permitted to be of heavy timber construction or noncombustible construction used singly or in combination, and
a) floor assemblies shall be fire separations with a fire-resistance rating not less than 45 min, and
b) loadbearing walls, columns and arches shall have a fire-resistance rating not less than that required for the supported assembly.
Group F, Division 1, up to 2 Storeys, Sprinklered
1) A building classified as Group F, Division 1 is permitted to conform to Sentence (2) provided
a) except as permitted by Sentences 3.2.2.7.(1) and 3.2.2.18.(2), the building is sprinklered throughout,
b) it is not more than 2 storeys in building height, and
c) it has a building area not more than
i) 2 400 m2 if 1 storey in building height, or ii) 1 200 m2 if 2 storeys in building height.
2) The building referred to in Sentence (1) is permitted to be of combustible construction or noncombustible construction used singly or in combination, and
a) floor assemblies shall be fire separations and, if of combustible construction, shall have a fire-resistance rating not less than 45 min, and
b) loadbearing walls, columns and arches supporting an assembly required to have a fire-resistance rating shall
i) haveafire-resistanceratingnotlessthan45min,or ii) be of noncombustible construction.
3.2.2.71.
3.2.2.72.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division B 3-65
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.2.2.73.
Division B
3.2.2.73.
3.2.2.74.
Group F, Division 1, One Storey
1) A building classified as Group F, Division 1 is permitted to be of combustible construction or noncombustible construction used singly or in combination provided
a) it is not more than 1 storey in building height, and
b) it has a building area not more than 800 m2.
Group F, Division 2, Any Height, Any Area, Sprinklered
1) Except as permitted by Sentence 3.2.2.7.(4) and Articles 3.2.2.75. to 3.2.2.79., a
building classified as Group F, Division 2 shall conform to Sentence (2).
2) Except as permitted by Article 3.2.2.16., the building referred to in Sentence (1) shall be of noncombustible construction, and
a) except as permitted by Sentences 3.2.2.7.(1) and 3.2.2.18.(2), the building shall be sprinklered throughout,
b) floor assemblies shall be fire separations with a fire-resistance rating not less than 2 h,
c) mezzanines shall have a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h, and
d) loadbearing walls, columns and arches shall have a fire-resistance rating not
less than that required for the supported assembly.
Group F, Division 2, up to 4 Storeys, Increased Area, Sprinklered
1) A building classified as Group F, Division 2 is permitted to conform to Sentence (2) provided
a) except as permitted by Sentences 3.2.2.7.(1) and 3.2.2.18.(2), the building is sprinklered throughout,
b) it is not more than 4 storeys in building height, and
c) it has a building area not more than
i) 18 000 m2 if 1 storey in building height, ii) 9 000 m2 if 2 storeys in building height,
iii) 6 000 m2 if 3 storeys in building height, or iv) 4 500 m2 if 4 storeys in building height.
2) Except as permitted by Article 3.2.2.16., the building referred to in Sentence (1) shall be of noncombustible construction, and
a) floor assemblies shall be fire separations with a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h,
b) mezzanines shall have a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h, and
c) loadbearing walls, columns and arches shall have a fire-resistance rating not
less than that required for the supported assembly.
Group F, Division 2, up to 3 Storeys
1) A building classified as Group F, Division 2 is permitted to conform to Sentence (2) provided
3.2.2.75.
3.2.2.76.
3-66 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
No. of Storeys
1 2 3
Facing 1 Street
1 500 1 500 1 070
Maximum Area, m2 Facing 2 Streets
1 500 1 500 1 340
Facing 3 Streets
1 500 1 500 1 500
a) b)
it is not more than 3 storeys in building height, and
it has a building area not more than the value in Table 3.2.2.76.
Table 3.2.2.76.
Maximum Building Area, Group F, Division 2, up to 3 Storeys Forming Part of Sentence 3.2.2.76.(1)
    © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 3.2.2.78.
3.2.2.77.
2) The building referred to in Sentence (1) is permitted to be of combustible construction or noncombustible construction used singly or in combination, and
a) floor assemblies shall be fire separations with a fire-resistance rating not less than 45 min,
b) mezzanines shall have, if of combustible construction, a fire-resistance rating not less than 45 min,
c) roof assemblies shall have, if of combustible construction, a fire-resistance rating not less than 45 min, except that in a building not more than 1 storey in building height, the fire-resistance rating is permitted to be waived provided that the roof assembly is constructed as a fire-retardant-treated wood roof system conforming to Article 3.1.14.1.,
d) loadbearing walls, columns and arches supporting an assembly required to have a fire-resistance rating shall
i) haveafire-resistanceratingnotlessthan45min,or ii) beofnoncombustibleconstruction,and
e) loadbearing walls, columns and arches supporting a fire separation shall have a fire-resistance rating not less than that required for the fire separation.
Group F, Division 2, up to 4 Storeys, Sprinklered
1) A building classified as Group F, Division 2 is permitted to conform to Sentence (2) provided
a) except as permitted by Sentences 3.2.2.7.(1) and 3.2.2.18.(2), the building is sprinklered throughout,
b) it is not more than 4 storeys in building height, and
c) it has a building area not more than
i) 9 600 m2 if 1 storey in building height, ii) 4 800 m2 if 2 storeys in building height,
iii) 3 200 m2 if 3 storeys in building height, or iv) 2 400 m2 if 4 storeys in building height.
2) The building referred to in Sentence (1) is permitted to be of combustible construction or noncombustible construction used singly or in combination, and
a) floor assemblies shall be fire separations with a fire-resistance rating not less than 45 min,
b) mezzanines shall have, if of combustible construction, a fire-resistance rating not less than 45 min,
c) loadbearing walls, columns and arches supporting an assembly required to have a fire-resistance rating shall
i) haveafire-resistanceratingnotlessthan45min,or ii) beofnoncombustibleconstruction,and
d) loadbearing walls, columns and arches supporting a fire separation shall have a fire-resistance rating not less than that required for the fire separation.
Group F, Division 2, up to 2 Storeys
1) A building classified as Group F, Division 2 is permitted to conform to Sentence (2) provided
3.2.2.78.
No. of Storeys
1 2
Facing 1 Street
1 000 600
Maximum Area, m2 Facing 2 Streets
1 250 750
Facing 3 Streets
1 500 900
a) b)
it is not more than 2 storeys in building height, and
it has a building area not more than the value in Table 3.2.2.78.
Table 3.2.2.78.
Maximum Building Area, Group F, Division 2, up to 2 Storeys Forming Part of Sentence 3.2.2.78.(1)
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division B 3-67
    © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.2.2.79.
Division B
3.2.2.79.
2) The building referred to in Sentence (1) is permitted to be of combustible construction or noncombustible construction used singly or in combination, and
a) floor assemblies shall be fire separations and, if of combustible construction, shall have a fire-resistance rating not less than 45 min, and
b) loadbearing walls, columns and arches supporting an assembly required to have a fire-resistance rating shall
i) haveafire-resistanceratingnotlessthan45min,or ii) be of noncombustible construction.
Group F, Division 2, up to 2 Storeys, Sprinklered
1) A building classified as Group F, Division 2 is permitted to conform to Sentence (2) provided
a) except as permitted by Sentences 3.2.2.7.(1) and 3.2.2.18.(2), the building is sprinklered throughout,
b) it is not more than 2 storeys in building height, and
c) it has a building area not more than
i) 4 500 m2 if 1 storey in building height, or ii) 1 800 m2 if 2 storeys in building height.
2) The building referred to in Sentence (1) is permitted to be of combustible construction or noncombustible construction used singly or in combination, and
a) floor assemblies shall be fire separations and, if of combustible construction, shall have a fire-resistance rating not less than 45 min, and
b) loadbearing walls, columns and arches supporting an assembly required to have a fire-resistance rating shall
i) haveafire-resistanceratingnotlessthan45min,or ii) be of noncombustible construction.
Group F, Division 3, Any Height, Any Area, Sprinklered
1) Except as permitted by Sentences 3.2.2.7.(3) and (4) and Articles 3.2.2.81.
to 3.2.2.90., a building classified as Group F, Division 3 shall conform to Sentence (2).
2) Except as permitted by Article 3.2.2.16., the building referred to in Sentence (1) shall be of noncombustible construction, and
a) except as permitted by Sentences 3.2.2.7.(1) and 3.2.2.18.(2), the building shall be sprinklered throughout,
b) floor assemblies shall be fire separations with a fire-resistance rating not less than 2 h, except that floor assemblies are permitted to be fire separations with a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h in a storage garage with all storeys constructed as open-air storeys,
c) mezzanines shall have a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h, and
d) loadbearing walls, columns and arches shall have a fire-resistance rating not
less than that required for the supported assembly.
Group F, Division 3, up to 6 Storeys
1) Except as permitted by Sentences 3.2.2.7.(3) and (4), a building classified as Group F, Division 3 is permitted to conform to Sentence (2) provided
3.2.2.80.
3.2.2.81.
3-68 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
a) b)
it is not more than 6 storeys in building height, and
it has a building area not more than the value in Table 3.2.2.81.
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
3.2.2.83.
3.2.2.82.
Group F, Division 3, up to 6 Storeys, Sprinklered
1) Except as permitted by Sentences 3.2.2.7.(3) and (4), a building classified as
3.2.2.83.
sprinklered throughout,
b) it is not more than 6 storeys in building height, and
c) it has a building area
i) that is not limited if the building is not more than 1 storey
in building height,
ii) not more than 21 600 m2 if 2 storeys in building height,
iii) not more than 14 400 m2 if 3 storeys in building height,
iv) not more than 10 800 m2 if 4 storeys in building height,
v) not more than 8 640 m2 if 5 storeys in building height, or
vi) not more than 7 200 m2 if 6 storeys in building height.
2) Except as permitted by Article 3.2.2.16., the building referred to in Sentence (1) shall be of noncombustible construction, and
a) floor assemblies shall be fire separations with a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h,
b) mezzanines shall have a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h, and
c) loadbearing walls, columns and arches shall have a fire-resistance rating not
less than that required for the supported assembly.
Group F, Division 3, up to 4 Storeys
1) A building classified as Group F, Division 3 is permitted to conform to Sentence (2) provided
a) it is not more than 4 storeys in building height, and
b) it has a building area not more than the value in Table 3.2.2.83.
No. of Storeys
Facing 1 Street
not limited 7 200
4 800
3 600
2 880
2 400
Maximum Area, m2 Facing 2 Streets
not limited 9 000
6 000
4 500
3 600
3 000
Facing 3 Streets
not limited 10 800 7 200
5 400
4 320
3 600
1 2 3 4 5 6
2)
and a)
b) c) d)
The building referred to in Sentence (1) shall be of noncombustible construction,
floor assemblies shall be fire separations with a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h,
mezzanines shall have a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h,
roof assemblies shall have a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h, and loadbearing walls, columns and arches shall have a fire-resistance rating not less than that required for the supported assembly.
Table 3.2.2.81.
Maximum Building Area, Group F, Division 3, up to 6 Storeys Forming Part of Sentence 3.2.2.81.(1)
Group
a) except as permitted by Sentences 3.2.2.7.(1) and 3.2.2.18.(2), the building is
F, Division 3 is permitted to conform to Sentence (2) provided
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division B 3-69
    © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.2.2.84.
Division B
3.2.2.84.
3.2.2.85.
3-70 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
No. of Storeys
Facing 1 Street
4 800 2 400 1 600 1 200
Maximum Area, m2 Facing 2 Streets
6 000 3 000 2 000 1 500
Facing 3 Streets
7 200 3 600 2 400 1 800
1 2 3 4
2)
a) b)
it is not more than 2 storeys in building height, and
it has a building area not more than the value in Table 3.2.2.85.
Table 3.2.2.83.
Maximum Building Area, Group F, Division 3, up to 4 Storeys Forming Part of Sentence 3.2.2.83.(1)
The building referred to in Sentence (1) is permitted to be of combustible construction or noncombustible construction used singly or in combination, and
a) floor assemblies shall be fire separations and, if of combustible construction, shall have a fire-resistance rating not less than 45 min,
b) mezzanines shall have, if of combustible construction, a fire-resistance rating not less than 45 min,
c) roof assemblies shall have, if of combustible construction, a fire-resistance rating not less than 45 min, except that in a building not more than 1 storey in building height, the fire-resistance rating is permitted to be waived provided the roof assembly is constructed as a fire-retardant-treated wood roof system conforming to Article 3.1.14.1., and the building area is not more than
i) 2 400 m2 if facing one street, ii) 3 000 m2 if facing 2 streets, or
iii) 3 600 m2 if facing 3 streets, and
d) loadbearing walls, columns and arches supporting an assembly required
to have a fire-resistance rating shall
i) haveafire-resistanceratingnotlessthan45min,or
ii) be of noncombustible construction.
Group F, Division 3, up to 4 Storeys, Sprinklered
1) A building classified as Group F, Division 3 is permitted to conform to Sentence (2) provided
a) except as permitted by Sentences 3.2.2.7.(1) and 3.2.2.18.(2), the building is sprinklered throughout,
b) it is not more than 4 storeys in building height, and
c) it has a building area not more than
i) 14 400 m2 if 1 storey in building height, ii) 7 200 m2 if 2 storeys in building height,
iii) 4 800 m2 if 3 storeys in building height, or iv) 3 600 m2 if 4 storeys in building height.
2) The building referred to in Sentence (1) is permitted to be of combustible construction or noncombustible construction used singly or in combination, and
a) floor assemblies shall be fire separations and, if of combustible construction, shall have a fire-resistance rating not less than 45 min,
b) mezzanines shall have, if of combustible construction, a fire-resistance rating not less than 45 min, and
c) loadbearing walls, columns and arches supporting an assembly required to have a fire-resistance rating shall
i) haveafire-resistanceratingnotlessthan45min,or ii) be of noncombustible construction.
Group F, Division 3, up to 2 Storeys
1) A building classified as Group F, Division 3 is permitted to conform to Sentence (2) provided
    © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
3.2.2.89.
3.2.2.86.
a) floor assemblies shall be fire separations and, if of combustible construction, shall have a fire-resistance rating not less than 45 min, and
b) loadbearing walls, columns and arches supporting an assembly required to have a fire-resistance rating shall
i) haveafire-resistanceratingnotlessthan45min,or ii) be of noncombustible construction.
Group F, Division 3, up to 2 Storeys, Sprinklered
1) A building classified as Group F, Division 3 is permitted to conform to Sentence (2) provided
a) except as permitted by Sentences 3.2.2.7.(1) and 3.2.2.18.(2), the building is sprinklered throughout,
b) it is not more than 2 storeys in building height, and
c) it has a building area not more than
i) 7 200 m2 if 1 storey in building height, or ii) 2 400 m2 if 2 storeys in building height.
2) The building referred to in Sentence (1) is permitted to be of combustible construction or noncombustible construction used singly or in combination, and
a) floor assemblies shall be fire separations and, if of combustible construction, shall have a fire-resistance rating not less than 45 min, and
b) loadbearing walls, columns and arches supporting an assembly required to have a fire-resistance rating shall
i) haveafire-resistanceratingnotlessthan45min,or ii) be of noncombustible construction.
Group F, Division 3, One Storey
1) A building classified as Group F, Division 3 is permitted to be of heavy timber construction or noncombustible construction used singly or in combination provided
a) it is not more than 1 storey in building height, and
b) it has a building area not more than
i) 5 600 m2 if facing one street, ii) 7 000 m2 if facing 2 streets, or
iii) 8 400 m2 if facing 3 streets.
Group F, Division 3, One Storey, Sprinklered
1) A building classified as Group F, Division 3 is permitted to be of heavy timber construction or noncombustible construction used singly or in combination provided
a) except as permitted by Sentences 3.2.2.7.(1) and 3.2.2.18.(2), the building is
sprinklered throughout,
b) it is not more than 1 storey in building height, and
c) it has a building area not more than 16 800 m2.
Group F, Division 3, One Storey, Any Area, Low Fire Load Occupancy
1) A building classified as Group F, Division 3 is permitted to conform to Sentence (2) provided it is
3.2.2.87.
3.2.2.88.
3.2.2.89.
No. of Storeys
Facing 1 Street
1 600 800
Maximum Area, m2 Facing 2 Streets
2 000 1 000
Facing 3 Streets
2 400 1 200
1 2
Table 3.2.2.85.
Maximum Building Area, Group F, Division 3, up to 2 Storeys Forming Part of Sentence 3.2.2.85.(1)
The building referred to in Sentence (1) is permitted to be of combustible construction or noncombustible construction used singly or in combination, and
2)
a) not more than 1 storey in building height,
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 3-71
    © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.2.2.90.
Division B
3.2.2.90.
b) used solely for low fire load occupancies such as i) power generating plants, or
ii) plants for the manufacture or storage of noncombustible materials, and
c) not limited in building area.
2) The building referred to in Sentence (1) shall be of noncombustible construction.
Group F, Division 3, Storage Garages up to 22 m High
1) A building used as a storage garage with all storeys constructed as open-air storeys and having no other occupancy above it is permitted to have its floor, wall, ceiling and roof assemblies constructed without a fire-resistance rating provided it is
a) of noncombustible construction,
b) not more than 22 m high, measured between grade and the ceiling level
of the top storey,
c) not more than 10 000 m2 in building area, and
d) designed so that every portion of each floor area is within 60 m of an exterior wall opening.
Spatial Separation and Exposure Protection
(See Note A-3.2.3.)
Limiting Distance and Area of Unprotected Openings
1) Except as permitted by Articles 3.2.3.10. to 3.2.3.12., the area of unprotected openings in an exposing building face for the applicable limiting distance shall be not more than the value determined in accordance with
a) Table 3.2.3.1.-B or 3.2.3.1.-C for an exposing building face conforming to Article 3.2.3.2. of a building or fire compartment which is not sprinklered, or
b) Table 3.2.3.1.-D or 3.2.3.1.-E for an exposing building face conforming to Article 3.2.3.2. of a sprinklered fire compartment that is part of a building which is sprinklered in conformance with Section 3.2.
(See Note A-3.)
(See also Article 3.1.6.3.)
2) The area of the unprotected openings in an exposing building face shall be the aggregate area of unprotected openings expressed as a percentage of the area of the exposing building face in Table 3.2.3.1.-B, 3.2.3.1.-C, 3.2.3.1.-D or 3.2.3.1.-E. (See Sentence 3.2.3.2.(1).)
3) For the purpose of determining the type of construction and cladding and the fire-resistance rating of an exterior wall,
a) the exposing building face shall be taken as the projection of the exterior wall onto a vertical plane located so that no portion of the exterior wall of the building or of a fire compartment, if the fire compartment complies with the requirements of Article 3.2.3.2., is between the vertical plane and the line to which the limiting distance is measured, and
b) the area of unprotected openings shall be determined from Table 3.2.3.1.-B, 3.2.3.1.-C, 3.2.3.1.-D or 3.2.3.1.-E.
4) For the purpose of determining the actual percentage of unprotected openings permitted in an exterior wall, the location of the exposing building face is permitted to be taken at a vertical plane located so that there are no unprotected openings between the vertical plane and the line to which the limiting distance is measured. (See Note A-3.2.3.1.(4).)
5) Except for buildings that are sprinklered, where the limiting distance is 2 m or less, individual unprotected openings in an exposing building face shall be no greater than
3.2.3. 3.2.3.1.
3-72 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
a) b)
the area stated in Table 3.2.3.1.-A, or
where the limiting distance is equal to or greater than 1.2 m, the area calculated by
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
3.2.3.1.
where
Area = area of the unprotected opening, and
LD = limiting distance.
Table 3.2.3.1.-A
Maximum Concentrated Area of Unprotected Openings Forming Part of Sentence 3.2.3.1.(5)
Limiting Distance, m
1.2 1.5 2.0
Maximum Area of Individual Unprotected Openings, m2
0.35 0.78 1.88
6) The spacing between individual unprotected openings described in Sentence (5) that serve a single room or space described in Sentence (7) shall not be less than
a) 2 m horizontally of another unprotected opening that is on the same exposing building face and serves the single room or space, or
b) 2 m vertically of another unprotected opening that serves the single room or space, or another room or space on the same storey.
7) For the purpose of Sentence (6), “single room or space” shall mean
a) two or more adjacent spaces having a full-height separating wall extending
less than 1.5 m from the interior face of the exterior wall, or
b) two or more stacked spaces that are on the same storey.
8) A limiting distance equal to half the actual limiting distance shall be used as input to Tables 3.2.3.1.-B and 3.2.3.1.-C, where
a) the time from receipt of notification of a fire by the fire department until the arrival of the first fire department vehicle at the building exceeds 10 min in 10% or more of all fire department calls to the building, and
b) any storey in the building is not sprinklered.
(See Notes A-3.2.3.1.(8) and A-3.2.3.)
9) If the surface temperature on the unexposed surface of a wall assembly exceeds the temperature limit of a standard fire test as permitted by Article 3.1.7.2., an allowance shall be made for the radiation from the hot unexposed wall surface by adding an equivalent area of unprotected opening to the area of actual openings as follows:
where
AC = corrected area of unprotected openings including actual and equivalent
openings,
A = actual area of unprotected openings,
AF = area of exterior surface of the exposing building face, exclusive of openings, on which the temperature limit of the standard test is exceeded, and
FEO = an equivalent opening factor derived from the following expression:
Tu = average temperature in degrees Celsius of the unexposed wall surface at the time the required fire-resistance rating is reached under test conditions,
Te = 892°C for a fire-resistance rating not less than 45 min, 927°C for a fire-resistance
rating not less than 1 h, and 1 010°C for a fire-resistance rating not less than 2 h.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 3-73
    © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.2.3.1.
Division B
3-74 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
10) Unless a closure used to protect an opening in an exposing building face has a protective performance equivalent to that required for the wall assembly in which it is located, an equivalent area of unprotected opening, determined in accordance with the procedures of Sentence (9) shall be added to the greater of
a) b)
the actual area of unprotected openings, or the corrected area of unprotected openings.
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 3.2.3.1.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 3-75
              © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022
Exposing Building Face
Area of Unprotected Opening for Groups A, B, Division 3, C, D, and F, Division 3 Occupancies, % Limiting Distance, m
Max.
Area,
m2
10
15
20
25
30
40
50
60
80
Ratio
(L/H or H/L)(1)
Lessthan3:1
3:1to10:1
over 10 : 1
Lessthan3:1
3:1to10:1
over10:1
Lessthan3:1
3:1to10:1
over 10 : 1
Lessthan3:1
3:1to10:1
over 10 : 1
Lessthan3:1
3:1to10:1
over 10 : 1
Lessthan3:1
3:1to10:1
over 10 : 1
Lessthan3:1
3:1to10:1
over 10 : 1
Lessthan3:1
3:1to10:1
over 10 : 1
Lessthan3:1
3:1to10:1
over 10 : 1
Lessthan3:1
0 1.2 1.5 2.0 2.5
0 8
10
18 29
0 8
12
21 33
0 11
18
32 48
0 7
9
14 22
0 8
10
17 25
0 10
15
26 39
0 7 9
12 18
0 8 10
15 21
0 9 14
23 33
0 7 8
11 16
0 8 9
13 19
0 9 13
21 30
0 7 8
11 15
0 7 9
12 17
0 8 12
19 27
0 7 8
10 13
0 7 8
11 15
0 8 11
17 24
0 7 8 9 12
0 7 8 10 14
0 8 10 15 21
0 7 8 9 11
0 7 8 10 13
0 8 10 14 20
0 7 7 8 10
0 7 8 9 11
0 89 13 17
0 7 7 8 9
0 7 8 9 11
0 79 12 16
3456789
46 91 100 50 96 100 68 100 33 63 100 37 67 100 53 87 100 26 49 81 100
1011121314161820253035404550
100 3:1to10:1
over 10 : 1
36 49 66 85 100
51 67 85 100
26 36 48 62 79
98 100
29 40 52 67 84 100
44 56 70 86 100
22 30 40 51 65 80 97 100
25 34 44 56 69 84 100
39 49 61 74 89 100
Table 3.2.3.1.-B Unprotected Opening Limits for a Building or Fire Compartment that is not Sprinklered Throughout Forming Part of Article 3.2.3.1.
30 53
45 72
23 41
26 45
39 62
20 35
23 39
36 56
85 100 100
66 98 100 70 100
90 100
56 83 100 61 88 100 79 100
17 28
44 64 89 100
20 32
48 69 93 100
31 47 66 88 100
15 24
18 28
28 41
14 21
16 25
25 38
12 18
14 21
22 32
11 16
13 18
20 29
37 53 72 96 100
41 57 77 100
57 76 97 100
32 45 62 81 100

 3.2.3.1. Division B
3-76 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
          © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022
Exposing Building Face
Max. Ratio Area, (L/H or H/L)(1) m2
Lessthan3:1 150 3:1to10:1
over 10 : 1 Lessthan3:1
250 3:1to10:1
over 10 : 1
Lessthan3:1
350 3:1to10:1
over 10 : 1
Lessthan3:1
500 3:1to10:1
over 10 : 1
Table 3.2.3.1.-B (Continued)
Area of Unprotected Opening for Groups A, B, Division 3, C, D, and F, Division 3 Occupancies, % Limiting Distance, m
01.21.52.02.534567891011121314161820253035404550
0 7 7 8 9 10 13 17 22 29 37 46 56 67 79 93 100 0 7 7 8 10 11 15 20 26 33 41 50 60 71 84 97 100 0781113172431394857687991100 0 7 7 7 8 9 10 13 16 20 25 30 36 43 51 59 68 87 100 0 7 7 8 9 10 12 15 19 24 28 34 40 47 55 63 72 92 100 078911141924303643505765738292100 0 7 7 7 8 8 9 11 14 16 20 24 28 33 38 44 50 64 81 99 100 0 7 7 8 8 9 11 13 16 19 23 27 32 37 42 48 55 69 85 100 07891012162125303641475359667388100 0 7 7 7 7 8 9 10 12 14 16 19 22 25 29 33 37 47 59 71 100 0 7 7 7 8 8 10 12 14 16 19 22 25 29 33 37 41 52 63 76 100 07789111418222530343843485358708296100 0 7 7 7 7 7 8 9 9 10 12 13 14 16 18 20 22 27 33 39 58 82 100 0 7 7 7 7 8 9 10 11 12 14 15 17 19 21 23 26 31 37 43 63 86 100 077889111316192124273033363946536082100 0 7 7 7 7 7 7 8 8 9 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 17 20 23 33 44 58 74 93 100 0 7 7 7 7 7 8 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 20 23 27 37 49 63 79 97 100 07778891112141618192123252732364053668299100
1000
2000
Lessthan3:1
3:1to10:1
over 10 : 1
Lessthan3:1
3:1to10:1
over 10 : 1
Notes to Table 3.2.3.1.-B:
(1) Apply whichever ratio is greater.
L =Lengthofexposingbuildingface
H =Heightofexposingbuildingface

 Division B 3.2.3.1.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 3-77
              © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022
Exposing Building Face
Area of Unprotected Openings for Groups E and F, Division 1 and 2 Occupancies, % Limiting Distance, m
Max.
Area,
m2
10
15
20
25
30
40
50
60
80
Ratio
(L/H or H/L)(1)
Lessthan3:1
3 : 1 to 10 : 1
over 10 : 1
Lessthan3:1
3:1to10:1
over 10 : 1
Lessthan3:1
3:1to10:1
over 10 : 1
Lessthan3:1
3:1to10:1
over 10 : 1
Lessthan3:1
3:1to10:1
over 10 : 1
Lessthan3:1
3:1to10:1
over 10 : 1
Lessthan3:1
3:1to10:1
over 10 : 1
Lessthan3:1
3:1to10:1
over 10 : 1
Lessthan3:1
3:1to10:1
over 10 : 1
Lessthan3:1
0 1.2 1.5 2.0 2.5 3
4 5
6 7 8
9
101112131416182025303540455055606570
100 3:1to10:1
over 10 : 1
6 9 12 20 30 44 60 80 100
10 14182840547191100
5 6 8 14 22 32 44 59 76
94 100 6 8 10 16 24 34 47 61 78
97 100 8 1215233344577289100
5 6 7 12 18 26 36 48 61 76 93 100
5 7 9 14 20 29 38 50 63 79 95 100
8 111421293848617490100
4 5 7 11 16 23 31 40 52 64 78 94 100
5 6 8 12 18 25 33 43 54 66 81 96 100
7 10131926344353647792100
4 5 6 9 13 18 24 31 40 49 60 71 84 98 100
5 6 7 10 15 20 26 33 42 51 62 74 86 100
6 9 11 16 22 28 35 43 52 62 73 85 98 100
4 5 5 8 11 15 20 26 32 40 48 58 68 79 100
4 5 6 9 13 17 22 28 35 42 51 60 70 81 100
6 8 10 14 19 25 31 37 44 52 61 71 81 92 100
0 4 5
0 4 6
0 5 9
0 4 5
0 4 5
0 5 8
0 4 4
0 4 5
0 5 7
0 4 4
0 4 5
0 4 6
0 4 4
0 4 4
0 4 6
0 4 4
0 4 4
0 4 5
0 4 4
0 4 4
0 4 5
0 4 4
0 4 4
0 4 5
0 4 4
0 4 4
0 4 5
0 4 4
0 4 4
0 4 4
9 15234677100 10 17254879100 16 24345891100
7 11 16 32 53 79 100
8 13 18 34 55 82 100 13 1926436693100
6 9 13 25 40 61 85 100
7 11 15 27 43 63 87 100 11 172236537499100
Table 3.2.3.1.-C Unprotected Opening Limits for a Building or Fire Compartment that is not Sprinklered Throughout Forming Part of Article 3.2.3.1.
6 8 11 20 33 49 69 92 100
7 9 13 22 35 51 71 94 100 10 152031456282100
5 7 10 18 28 42 58 77 100

 3.2.3.1. Division B
3-78 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
          © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022
Exposing Building Face
Table 3.2.3.1.-C (Continued)
Area of Unprotected Openings for Groups E and F, Division 1 and 2 Occupancies, % Limiting Distance, m
01.21.52.02.53456789101112131416182025303540455055606570
Max.
Area,
m2
150
250
350
500
1000
2000
Ratio (L/H or H/L)(1)
Lessthan3:1
3:1to10:1
over 10 : 1
Lessthan3:1
3:1to10:1
over 10 : 1
Lessthan3:1
3:1to10:1
over 10 : 1
Lessthan3:1
3:1to10:1
over 10 : 1
Lessthan3:1
3:1to10:1
over 10 : 1
Lessthan3:1
3:1to10:1
over 10 : 1
0 4
0 4
04
0 4
0 4
04
0 4
0 4
04
0 4
0 4
04
0 4
0 4
04
0 4
0 4
04
4 4 4 5 6 8 11 14 18 23 28 33 40 46 54 70 89 100 4 4 5 6 8 10 13 16 20 25 30 36 42 49 56 73 92 100 4578121620242934394652596784100 4 4 4 4 5 7 8 10 12 15 18 22 25 29 34 44 55 68 100 4 4 4 5 6 8 10 12 14 17 20 24 27 32 36 46 57 70 100 4567912151821252832374146566881100 4 4 4 4 5 6 7 8 10 12 14 16 19 22 25 32 40 49 77 100 4 4 4 4 5 7 8 10 12 14 16 18 21 24 27 34 43 52 79 100 445681013151821232630333644536290100 4 4 4 4 4 5 6 7 8 9 11 13 14 16 19 24 29 36 55 78 100 4 4 4 4 5 6 7 8 9 11 13 14 16 18 21 26 31 38 57 80 100 4455791113151719212426293541486892100 4 4 4 4 4 4 5 5 6 6 7 8 9 10 11 14 16 20 29 41 55 71 89 100 4 4 4 4 4 5 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 15 18 22 31 43 57 73 91 100 444567891112131516182023263041536884100 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 5 5 5 6 6 7 7 9 10 12 16 22 29 37 46 56 68 80 94 100 4 4 4 4 4 4 5 5 5 6 6 7 7 8 9 10 12 13 18 24 31 39 49 59 70 83 96 100 444455678910111213141618202633415059708194100
Notes to Table 3.2.3.1.-C:
(1) Apply whichever ratio is greater.
L =Lengthofexposingbuildingface
H =Heightofexposingbuildingface

 Division B
3.2.3.2.
Exposing Building Face
Max. Area, m2
Table 3.2.3.1.-D
Unprotected Opening Limits for a Building or Fire Compartment that is Sprinklered Throughout Forming Part of Article 3.2.3.1.
Area of Unprotected Opening for Groups A, B, C, D and F, Division 3 Occupancies, %
Limiting Distance, m
0 1.2 1.5 2.0 2.5 3 4 5 6 7 8 9
10 0 16 24 42 66 100
15 0 16 20 34 50 74 100
20 0 16 20 30 42 60 100
25 0 16 18 26 38 52 90 100
30 0 14 18 24 34 46 78 100
40 0 14 16 22 30 40 64 96 100
50 0 14 16 20 28 36 56 82 100
60 0 14 16 20 26 32 50 72 98 100 80 0 14 16 18 22 28 42 58 80 100
100 0 14 16 18 22 26 36 50 68 88 100
150ormore
Exposing Building Face
Max. Area, m2
0 14 14 16 20 22 30 40 52 66 82 100
Table 3.2.3.1.-E
Unprotected Opening Limits for a Building or Fire Compartment that is Sprinklered Throughout Forming Part of Article 3.2.3.1.
Area of Unprotected Opening for Groups E and F, Division 1 and 2 Occupancies, %
Limiting Distance, m
0 1.2 1.5 2.0 2.5 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15
10 0 8 12 20 34 50 96 100
15 0 8 10 16 26 36 68 100
20 0 8 10 14 22 30 54 86 100
25 0 8 10 14 18 26 44 70 100
30 0 8 8 12 18 24 40 60 88 100
40 0 8 8 12 16 20 32 48 68 94 100
50 0 8 8 10 14 18 28 40 58 76 100
60 0 8 8 10 12 16 24 36 50 66 86 100
80 0 8 8 10 12 14 20 30 40 52 66 84 100
100 0 8 8 8 10 12 18 26 34 44 56 70 84 100
150 0 8 8 8 10 12 16 20 26 32 40 50 60 72 84 98 100
200ormore
0 8 8 8 8 10 14 18 22 28 34 42 50 60 68 80 92 100
3.2.3.2. Area of Exposing Building Face
1) Except as permitted by Sentences (2) and (3), the area of an exposing building face shall be calculated as the total area of an exterior wall facing in one direction on any side of a building measured from the finished ground level to the uppermost ceiling.
2) If a building is divided by fire separations into fire compartments, the area of exposing building face is permitted to be calculated for each fire compartment provided the fire separations have a fire-resistance rating not less than 45 min.
3) In a building that is sprinklered throughout and contains an interconnected floor space, the area of the exposing building face for the interconnected floor space is permitted to be determined by considering each storey as a separate fire compartment notwithstanding openings through the floor assemblies.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 3-79
                © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.2.3.3.
Division B
3.2.3.3.
3.2.3.4.
3.2.3.5.
3.2.3.6.
Wall Enclosing Attic or Roof Space
1) An exterior wall enclosing an attic or roof space and located above an exposing building face, shall be constructed in conformance with the requirements for the exposing building face.
Party Wall
1) A party wall shall be constructed as a firewall. (See Note A-3.2.3.4.(1).)
Wall with Limiting Distance Less Than 1.2 m
1) Openings in a wall that has a limiting distance less than 1.2 m shall be protected by closures whose fire-protection rating is in conformance with the fire-resistance rating required for the wall.
2) Wired glass or glass block shall not be used for a closure referred to in Sentence (1).
Combustible Projections
1) Except for a building containing one or 2 dwelling units only, combustible projections on the exterior of a wall that could expose an adjacent building to fire spread and are more than 1 m above ground level, including balconies, platforms, canopies and stairs, shall not be permitted within 1.2 m of
a) a property line or the centre line of a public way, or
b) any imaginary line used to determine the limiting distance between 2
buildings located on the same property.
2) Except as provided in Sentence (4), where the exposing building face has a limiting distance of not more than 0.45 m, projecting roof soffits shall not be constructed above the exposing building face. (See Note A-3.2.3.6.(2).)
3) Except as provided in Sentence (4), where the exposing building face has a limiting distance of more than 0.45 m, the face of roof soffits shall not project to less than 0.45 m from the property line. (See Note A-3.2.3.6.(2).)
4) The face of a roof soffit is permitted to project to the property line, where it faces a street, lane or public thoroughfare. (See Note A-9.10.14.5.(11) and 9.10.15.5.(10).)
5) Where roof soffits project to less than 1.2 m from the centre line of a lane or public thoroughfare, or from an imaginary line between two buildings or fire compartments on the same property, they shall
a) have no openings, and
b) be protected by
i) notlessthan0.38mmthicksheetsteel,
ii) unvented aluminum conforming to CAN/CGSB-93.2-M,
“Prefinished Aluminum Siding, Soffits, and Fascia, for
Residential Use,”
iii) notlessthan12.7mmthickgypsumsoffitboardorgypsum
ceiling board installed according to CSA A82.31-M,
“Gypsum Board Application,”
iv) notlessthan11mmthickplywood,
v) notlessthan12.5mmthickOSBorwaferboard,or
vi) notlessthan11mmthicklumber.
6) For buildings of combustible construction, materials installed to provide the required protection of soffits may be covered with a combustible or noncombustible finish material.
7) The underside of balconies on a building conforming to Article 3.2.2.50. or 3.2.2.58. shall be covered with a noncombustible finish material.
Construction of Exposing Building Face
1) Except as provided in Sentences (3) and (4), and Articles 3.2.3.10. and 3.2.3.11.,
the fire-resistance rating, construction and cladding for exposing building faces of buildings
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
3.2.3.7.
3-80 Division B
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 3.2.3.7.
Group A, B, C, D, or Group F, Division 3
Group E, or Group F, Division 1 or 2
0 to 10 > 10 to 25
> 25 to 50
> 50 to < 100 0 to 10
> 10 to 25
> 25 to 50 > 50 to < 100
1 h 1 h
45 min
45 min 2 h 2 h
1 h 1 h
Noncombustible
Combustible or Noncombustible
Combustible or Noncombustible
Combustible or Noncombustible
Noncombustible
Combustible or Noncombustible
Combustible or Noncombustible
Combustible or Noncombustible
Noncombustible Noncombustible
Noncombustible
Combustible or Noncombustible
Noncombustible Noncombustible
Noncombustible
Combustible or Noncombustible
or fire compartments of Group A, B, C, D or Group F, Division 3 occupancy classification shall comply with Table 3.2.3.7.
2) Except as provided in Sentences (3) and (4) and Article 3.2.3.10., the fire-resistance rating, construction and cladding for exposing building faces of buildings or fire compartments of Group E or Group F, Division 1 or 2 occupancy classification shall comply with Table 3.2.3.7.
Table 3.2.3.7.
Minimum Construction Requirements for Exposing Building Faces Forming Part of Sentences 3.2.3.7.(1) and (2)
3) The requirement in Table 3.2.3.7. for noncombustible cladding for buildings or fire compartments where the maximum permitted area of unprotected openings is more than 10% of the exposing building face is permitted to be waived for exterior wall assemblies that comply with Article 3.1.5.5.
4) The requirement in Table 3.2.3.7. for noncombustible cladding for buildings or fire compartments where the maximum permitted area of unprotected openings is more than 25% but not more than 50% of the exposing building face is permitted to be waived where
a) the limiting distance is greater than 5 m,
b) the building or fire compartment and all combustible attic and roof spaces are
sprinklered throughout,
c) the cladding
i) conforms to Subsections 9.27.6. , 9.27.7. , 9.27.8. , 9.27.9. or 9.27.10.,
ii) is installed without furring members, or on furring not more than 25 mm thick, over gypsum sheathing at least 12.7 mm thick or over masonry, and
iii) after conditioning in conformance with ASTM D 2898, “Accelerated Weathering of Fire-Retardant-Treated Wood for Fire Testing,” has a flame-spread rating not greater than 25 on the exterior face when tested in accordance with Sentence 3.1.12.1.(1),
d) the cladding
i) conforms to Subsection 9.27.12.,
ii) isinstalledwithorwithoutfurringmembersovergypsum sheathing at least 12.7 mm thick or over masonry,
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division B 3-81
  Occupancy Classification of Building or Fire Compartment
 Maximum Area of
Unprotected Openings Permitted, % of Exposing Building Face Area
Minimum Required
Fire-Resistance Rating
  Type of Construction Required
 Type of Cladding Required
     © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.2.3.8.
Division B
3.2.3.8.
3.2.3.9.
3.2.3.10.
3-82 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
e)
iii) hasaflame-spreadratingnotgreaterthan25whentestedin accordance with Sentence 3.1.12.1.(2), and
iv) doesnotexceed2mminthicknessexclusiveoffasteners, joints and local reinforcements, or
the exterior wall assembly complies with Article 3.1.5.5.
The construction requirements for the exposing building face stated in Sentences (1) and (2) shall be satisfied before increasing the unprotected opening area as permitted by Sentence 3.2.3.12.(1).
Protection of Exterior Building Face
1) Except as permitted by Sentence (3) and in addition to the requirements of Sentences 3.2.3.7.(1) and (2) and where the maximum permitted area of unprotected openings is greater than 10% of the exposing building face, foamed plastic insulation used in an exterior wall of a building more than 3 storeys in building height shall be protected on its exterior surface by
a) concrete or masonry not less than 25 mm thick, or
b) noncombustible material that complies with the criteria for testing and the
conditions of acceptance stated in Sentence (2) when tested in conformance with CAN/ULC-S101, “Fire Endurance Tests of Building Construction and Materials.”
2) The criteria for testing and the conditions of acceptance for a wall assembly to satisfy the requirements of Clause (1)(b) are that
a) the fire exposed area of the wall assembly shall be not less than 9.3 m2 and have no dimension less than 2.75 m,
b) the exposed surface shall include typical vertical and horizontal joints,
c) the test shall be continued for not less than 15 min and the standard time/temperature curve of the referenced standard shall be followed,
d) the noncombustible protective material must remain in place and no through openings should develop that are visible when viewed normal to the face of the material, and
e) the noncombustible protective material should not disintegrate in a manner that would permit fire to propagate along the surface of the test assembly.
3) The requirements of Sentence (1) are waived for wall assemblies that comply with the requirements of Article 3.1.5.5. (See Note A-3.1.4.1.(1).)
Protection of Structural Members
1) Structural members, including beams, columns and arches, that are placed wholly or partly outside the exterior face of a building and are less than 3 m from
the property line or the centre line of a public thoroughfare shall be protected from exterior fire exposure by fire protection having a fire-resistance rating not less than that required for their protection from interior fire exposure, as stated in Articles 3.2.2.20. to 3.2.2.90., but not less than 1 h.
2) Structural members of heavy timber construction, including beams, columns and arches, that are placed wholly or partly outside the exterior face of a building and are
3 m or more from the property line or the centre line of a public thoroughfare need not be covered with noncombustible cladding.
Unlimited Unprotected Openings
1) An exposing building face in a storage garage with all storeys constructed as open-air storeys is permitted to have unlimited unprotected openings provided it has a limiting distance not less than 3 m.
2) The exposing building face of a storey that faces a street and is at the same level as the street is permitted to have unlimited unprotected openings if the limiting distance is not less than 9 m.
5)
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 3.2.3.14.
3.2.3.11.
3.2.3.12.
3.2.3.13.
Low Fire Load, One Storey Building
1) An exposing building face of a building of low-hazard industrial occupancy conforming to Article 3.2.2.89. is permitted to be of noncombustible construction without a fire-resistance rating provided
a) it is not a loadbearing wall, and
b) the limiting distance is not less than 3 m.
Area Increase for Unprotected Openings
1) Except as required by Sentence 3.2.3.7.(5), the maximum area of unprotected openings in any exposing building face of an unsprinklered building is permitted to be doubled if the openings are glazed with
a) glass block conforming to the requirements of Article 3.1.8.16., or
b) wired glass assemblies conforming to D-2.3.15. in Appendix D.
Protection of Exit Facilities
1) Except as required by Sentence (3) and as permitted by Sentence 3.4.4.3.(1), if the plane of an exterior wall of an exit enclosure forms an angle less than 135° with the plane of an exterior wall of the building it serves, and an opening in the exterior wall of the exit enclosure could be exposed to fire from an opening in the exterior wall of the building, the opening in either the exterior wall of the exit or the exterior wall of the building shall be protected in conformance with the requirements of Sentence (4) where the opening in the exterior wall of the building is within 3 m horizontally and
a) less than 10 m below an opening in the exterior wall of the exit, or
b) less than 2 m above an opening in the exterior wall of the exit.
(See Note A-3.2.3.14.(1).)
2) If an unenclosed exterior exit stair or ramp could be exposed to fire from an opening in the exterior wall of the building it serves, the opening in the exterior wall of the building shall be protected in conformance with the requirements of Sentence (4) where the opening in the exterior wall of the building is within 3 m horizontally and
a) less than 10 m below the exit stair or ramp, or
b) less than 5 m above the exit stair or ramp.
3) Except as permitted by Sentence 3.4.4.3.(1), if an exterior exit door in one fire compartment is within 3 m horizontally of an opening in another fire compartment and the exterior walls of these fire compartments intersect at an exterior angle of less than 135°, the opening shall be protected in conformance with the requirements of Sentence (4).
4) The opening protection referred to in Sentences (1), (2) and (3) shall consist of
a) glass block conforming to the requirements of Article 3.1.8.16.,
b) a wired glass assembly conforming to D-2.3.15. in Appendix D, or
c) a closure conforming to the requirements of Subsection 3.1.8. and
Articles 3.2.3.1. and 3.2.3.14.
Wall Exposed to Another Wall
1) Except as required by Sentences (3) and 3.2.3.13.(1) or as permitted by Sentence 3.2.3.19.(4), if an unprotected opening in an exterior wall of a fire compartment is exposed to an unprotected opening in the exterior wall of another fire compartment, and the planes of the 2 walls are parallel or at an angle less than 135°, measured from
the exterior of the building, the unprotected openings in the 2 fire compartments shall be separated by a distance not less than Do where
3.2.3.14.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 3-83
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.2.3.15.
Division B
3.2.3.15.
3.2.3.16.
but in no case less than 1 m, and
D =thegreaterrequiredlimitingdistancefortheexposingbuildingfacesofthe2
fire compartments, and
θ = the angle made by the intersecting planes of the exposing building faces of
the 2 fire compartments (in the case where the exterior walls are parallel
and face each other, θ = 0°). (See Note A-3.2.3.14.(1).)
2) The exterior wall of each fire compartment referred to in Sentence (1) within the distance, Do, shall have a fire-resistance rating not less than that required for the interior vertical fire separation between the fire compartment and the remainder of the building.
3) Sentence (1) does not apply to unprotected openings of fire compartments within a building that is sprinklered throughout, but shall apply to
a) unprotected openings of fire compartments on opposite sides of a firewall, and
b) exposure from unprotected openings of a fire compartment that is not protected
by an automatic sprinkler system.
Wall Exposed to Adjoining Roof
1) Except as permitted by Sentence 3.2.3.19.(4), if a wall in a building is exposed to a fire hazard from an adjoining roof of a separate fire compartment that is not sprinklered in the same building, and the exposed wall contains windows within 3 storeys vertically and 5 m horizontally of the roof, the roof shall contain no skylights within 5 m of
the exposed wall.
Protection of Soffits
1) Except as permitted by Sentences (3) and (4), where there is a common attic
or roof space above more than 2 suites of residential occupancy or above more than 2 patients’ or residents’ sleeping rooms, and the common attic or roof space projects beyond the exterior wall of the building, the soffit, and any opening in the soffit or other surface of the projection located within 2 500 mm of a window or door opening, shall be protected by
a) noncombustible material
i) not less than 0.38 mm thick, and
ii) havingameltingpointnotbelow650°C,
b) plywood not less than 11 mm thick,
c) strandboard or waferboard not less than 12.5 mm thick, or
d) lumber not less than 11 mm thick.
2) The soffit protection required by Sentence (1) shall extend the full width of the opening and to not less than 1 200 mm on either side of it, and shall apply to all openings through the soffit within this limit.
3) If an eave overhang is completely separated from the remainder of the attic or roof space by the use of fire blocks, the requirements of Sentence (1) do not apply.
4) The protection required by Sentence (1) for projections is permitted to be omitted if
a) the fire compartments behind the window and door openings are sprinklered in accordance with Article 3.2.5.12., and
b) all rooms, including closets and bathrooms, having openings in the wall beneath the soffit are sprinklered, notwithstanding exceptions permitted in the standards referenced in Article 3.2.5.12. for the installation of automatic sprinkler systems.
Canopy Protection for Vertically Separated Openings
1) Except as permitted by Sentences (2) and (3), if a storey classified as a Group E or Group F, Division 1 or 2 major occupancy is required to be separated from the storey above by a fire separation,
a) every opening in the exterior wall of the lower storey that is located vertically below an opening in the storey above shall be separated from the storey
3.2.3.17.
3-84 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
3.2.3.20.
3.2.3.18.
3.2.3.19.
3.2.3.20.
b)
above by a canopy projecting not less than 1 m from the face of the building at the intervening floor level, and
the canopy required by Clause (a) shall have a fire-resistance rating not less than that required for the floor assembly but need not be more than 1 h, except as required elsewhere in this Subsection.
Except as permitted by Sentence (3), the canopy required by Sentence (1) is permitted to be omitted if the exterior wall of the upper storey is recessed not less than 1 m behind the exterior wall containing the opening in the lower storey.
3) The requirements of Sentences (1) and (2) are permitted to be waived if the building is sprinklered throughout.
Covered Vehicular Passageway
1) A covered vehicular passageway designed as a receiving or shipping area shall be separated from every building or part of a building adjoining it by a fire separation having a fire-resistance rating not less than 1.5 h.
2) A covered vehicular passageway constructed below grade shall be of noncombustible construction.
Walkway between Buildings
1) Except as required by Sentence 3.2.3.20.(2), if buildings are connected by a walkway, each building shall be separated from the walkway by a fire separation with a fire-resistance rating not less than 45 min .
2) Except as permitted by Sentence (3), a walkway connected to a building required to be of noncombustible construction shall also be of noncombustible construction.
3) A walkway connected to a building required to be of noncombustible construction is permitted to be of heavy timber construction provided
a) not less than 50% of the area of any enclosing perimeter walls is open to the outdoors, and
b) the walkway is at ground level.
4) A walkway of noncombustible construction used only as a pedestrian thoroughfare
need not conform to the requirements of Articles 3.2.3.14. and 3.2.3.15. 5) A walkway between buildings shall be not more than 9 m wide.
Underground Walkway
1) An underground walkway shall not be designed or used for any purpose other than pedestrian travel unless
a) the walkway is sprinklered,
b) the occupancies are limited to major occupancies in Groups D and E, a
restaurant or a licensed beverage establishment, and
c) the walkway and spaces occupied by the occupancies referred to in Clause (b)
are in conformance with the requirements in the NBC regarding floor areas
and occupancy separation.
(See Sentence 3.8.2.2.(5) that contains requirements regarding accessibility.)
2) Buildings connected by an underground walkway shall be separated from the walkway by a fire separation with a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h.
3) An underground walkway shall be of noncombustible construction suitable for an underground location.
4) In an underground walkway
a) smoke barrier doors shall be installed at intervals of not more than 100 m, or
b) the travel distance from the door of an adjacent room or space to the
nearest exit shall be not more than one and a half times the least allowable travel distance to an exit for any of the adjacent occupancies as permitted by Sentence 3.4.2.5.(1).
2)
5) An underground walkway between buildings shall be not more than 9 m wide.

Division B
3.2.3.20.
3.2.3.18.
3.2.3.19.
3.2.3.20.
b)
above by a canopy projecting not less than 1 m from the face of the building at the intervening floor level, and
the canopy required by Clause (a) shall have a fire-resistance rating not less than that required for the floor assembly but need not be more than 1 h, except as required elsewhere in this Subsection.
Except as permitted by Sentence (3), the canopy required by Sentence (1) is permitted to be omitted if the exterior wall of the upper storey is recessed not less than 1 m behind the exterior wall containing the opening in the lower storey.
3) The requirements of Sentences (1) and (2) are permitted to be waived if the building is sprinklered throughout.
Covered Vehicular Passageway
1) A covered vehicular passageway designed as a receiving or shipping area shall be separated from every building or part of a building adjoining it by a fire separation having a fire-resistance rating not less than 1.5 h.
2) A covered vehicular passageway constructed below grade shall be of noncombustible construction.
Walkway between Buildings
1) Except as required by Sentence 3.2.3.20.(2), if buildings are connected by a walkway, each building shall be separated from the walkway by a fire separation with a fire-resistance rating not less than 45 min .
2) Except as permitted by Sentence (3), a walkway connected to a building required to be of noncombustible construction shall also be of noncombustible construction.
3) A walkway connected to a building required to be of noncombustible construction is permitted to be of heavy timber construction provided
a) not less than 50% of the area of any enclosing perimeter walls is open to the outdoors, and
b) the walkway is at ground level.
4) A walkway of noncombustible construction used only as a pedestrian thoroughfare
need not conform to the requirements of Articles 3.2.3.14. and 3.2.3.15. 5) A walkway between buildings shall be not more than 9 m wide.
Underground Walkway
1) An underground walkway shall not be designed or used for any purpose other than pedestrian travel unless
a) the walkway is sprinklered,
b) the occupancies are limited to major occupancies in Groups D and E, a
restaurant or a licensed beverage establishment, and
c) the walkway and spaces occupied by the occupancies referred to in Clause (b)
are in conformance with the requirements in the NBC regarding floor areas
and occupancy separation.
(See Sentence 3.8.2.2.(5) that contains requirements regarding accessibility.)
2) Buildings connected by an underground walkway shall be separated from the walkway by a fire separation with a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h.
3) An underground walkway shall be of noncombustible construction suitable for an underground location.
4) In an underground walkway
a) smoke barrier doors shall be installed at intervals of not more than 100 m, or
b) the travel distance from the door of an adjacent room or space to the
nearest exit shall be not more than one and a half times the least allowable travel distance to an exit for any of the adjacent occupancies as permitted by Sentence 3.4.2.5.(1).
2)
5) An underground walkway between buildings shall be not more than 9 m wide.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 3-85
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022
 3.2.3.21.
Division B
3.2.3.21.
3.2.3.22.
3.2.4. 3.2.4.1.
Storage and Process Equipment Located Outdoors
1) Location of outdoor storage and outdoor process equipment in relation to
buildings shall conform to Parts 3 and 4 of Division B of the NFC. Installation of Service Lines Under Buildings
1) When a building is erected over existing buried flammable gas mains, such service lines shall be encased in gas-tight conduits in conformance with CAN/CSA-Z662, “Oil and Gas Pipeline Systems.”
Fire Alarm and Detection Systems
(See Note A-3.2.4.)
Determination of Requirement for a Fire Alarm System
1) Except as permitted in Sentences (2) and (3), a fire alarm system shall be
installed in buildings in which an automatic sprinkler system is installed.
2) Buildings in which a sprinkler system is installed in accordance with NFPA 13D, “Installation of Sprinkler Systems in One- and Two-Family Dwellings and Manufactured Homes,” need not comply with Sentence (1); in a single-family type care occupancy, a residential fire warning system conforming to CAN/ULC-S540, “Residential Fire and Life Safety Warning Systems: Installation, Inspection, Testing and Maintenance,” shall be installed and shall comply with the requirements in Article 3.2.4.21.
3) Except single-family type care occupancies, buildings that contain fewer than 9 sprinklers conforming to Sentence 3.2.5.12.(4) need not comply with Sentence (1).
4) Except as permitted by Sentences (5) to (7) and Sentence 3.2.4.2.(4), a fire alarm system shall be installed in a building that is not sprinklered throughout and that contains
a) a contained use area,
b) an impeded egress zone,
c) more than 3 storeys, including the storeys below the first storey,
d) an occupant load more than 150, in the case of a Group A, Division 1 building,
or 300 in all other cases, except in open air seating areas,
e) an occupant load more than 150 above or below the first storey, other than in
open air seating areas,
f) a school, college, or child care facility, including a daycare facility, with an
occupant load more than 40,
g) a licensed beverage establishment or a licensed restaurant, with an occupant
load more than 150,
h) a low-hazard industrial occupancy with an occupant load more than 75 above or
below the first storey,
i) a medium-hazard industrial occupancy with an occupant load more than 75
above or below the first storey,
j) a residential occupancy with sleeping accommodation for more than
10 persons,
k) a high-hazard industrial occupancy with an occupant load more than 25,
l) an occupant load more than 300 below an open air seating area.
m) a building with an ambulatory clinic occupancy referred to in Article 3.1.2.7., or
n) a care occupancy except a single-family type private seniors’ residence.
5) Where each dwelling unit in an apartment building that is not sprinklered has direct access to an exterior exit facility leading to ground level, a fire alarm system is not required if
a) not more than 4 dwelling units share a common means of egress, or
b) the building is not more than 3 storeys in building height.
6) A fire alarm system is not required in a hotel or motel 3 storeys or less in building height that is contained in a building that is not sprinklered provided each suite has direct access to an exterior exit facility leading to ground level.
3-86 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 3.2.4.4.
3.2.4.2.
7) A fire alarm system is not required in a storage garage conforming to Article 3.2.2.90. that is contained in a building that is not sprinklered provided there are no other occupancies in the building.
Continuity of Fire Alarm System
1) Except as permitted by Sentence (6), if there are openings through a firewall, other than those for piping, tubing, wiring and totally enclosed noncombustible raceways, the requirements in this Subsection shall apply to the floor areas on both sides of the firewall as if they were in the same building. (See Note A-3.2.4.2.(1).)
2) Except as permitted by Sentence (4), if a building contains more than one major occupancy and a fire alarm system is required, a single system shall serve all occupancies.
3) Except as permitted by Sentence (4), if a fire alarm system is required in any portion of a building, it shall be installed throughout the building.
4) Except as required by Sentence (5), the requirements in this Subsection are permitted to be applied to each portion of a building not more than 3 storeys in building height, in which a vertical fire separation having a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h separates the portion from the remainder of the building as if it were a separate building, provided there are no openings through the fire separation, other than those for piping, tubing, wiring and totally enclosed noncombustible raceways.
5) The permission in Sentence (4) to consider separated portions of a building as separate buildings does not apply to service rooms and storage rooms.
6) Buildings interconnected by walkways permitted in Articles 3.2.3.19. and 3.2.3.20. or by vestibules provided in conformance with Article 3.2.6.3. shall be treated as separate buildings for the purpose of fire alarm installation required by this Subsection.
Types of Fire Alarm Systems
1) A fire alarm system shall be
a) a single-stage system in a Group F, Division 1 occupancy,
b) a 2-stage system,
i) except as permitted in Clause (c), in a Group B occupancy, and
ii) wherethereisatleastonehorizontalexitthatisanexitfrom one building to another by means of a doorway in a firewall, or
c) a single- or 2-stage system in a Group B, Division 3 occupancy where the building is 3 storeys or less in building height and the floor area is not divided for evacuation purposes, and
d) a single- or 2-stage system in all other cases.
Description of Fire Alarm Systems
1) A single stage fire alarm system shall, upon the operation of any manual station, waterflow detecting device, or fire detector, cause an alarm signal to sound on all audible signal devices in the system. (See Note A-3.2.4.4.(1).)
2) A 2-stage fire alarm system shall
a) cause an alert signal to sound upon the operation of any manual station,
waterflow detecting device, or fire detector,
b) automatically cause an alarm signal to sound if the alert signal is not
acknowledged within 5 min of its initiation, and
c) have manual stations, each of which is equipped so that the use of a key
or other similar device causes an alarm signal to sound that continues to sound upon removal of the key or similar device from the manual station (see Note A-3.2.4.4.(2)(c)).
(See Note A-3.2.4.4.(2).)
3) A 2-stage fire alarm system is permitted to be zone coded so that, upon the operation of any manual station, waterflow detecting device, or fire detector,
3.2.4.3.
3.2.4.4.
a) a coded alert signal is sounded indicating the zone of alarm initiation,
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 3-87
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.2.4.5.
Division B
3.2.4.5.
b) the coded alert signal is repeated in its entirety not less than 4 times, and
c) a continuous alert signal is sounded upon completion of the coded signals
referred to in Clause (b) and Sentence (4).
4) If a second manual station, waterflow detecting device, or fire detector is operated in a fire alarm system with zone coding as permitted by Sentence (3), in a zone other than that for which the first alert signal was sounded, the coded alert signal for the first zone shall be completed before the coded alert signal for the second zone is repeated not less than 4 times.
Installation and Verification of Fire Alarm Systems
1) Fire alarm systems, including the voice communication capability where provided, shall be installed in conformance with CAN/ULC-S524, “Installation of Fire Alarm Systems,” and, notwithstanding section 1.05 of the Construction Code (chapter B-1.1, r. 2), the provisions on fire alarm systems in Section 32 of CSA C22.1, “Canadian Electrical Code, Part I.” (See Note A-3.2.4.5.(1).)
2) Fire alarm systems shall be verified in conformance with CAN/ULC-S537, “Verification of Fire Alarm Systems,” to ensure they are operating satisfactorily.
3) Residential fire alarm systems shall be installed, inspected and tested in accordance with CAN/ULC-S540, “Residential Fire and Life Safety Warning Systems: Installation, Inspection, Testing and Maintenance,” and, notwithstanding section 1.05 of the Construction Code (chapter B-1.1, r. 2), with the provisions on fire alarm systems in Section 32 of CSA C22.1, “Canadian Electrical Code, Part I.”
Silencing of Alarm Signals
1) A fire alarm system shall be designed so that when an alarm signal is actuated, it cannot be silenced automatically before a period of time has elapsed that is not less than
a) 5 min for a building not required to be equipped with an annunciator, and b) 20 min for any other building.
2) Except as permitted by Sentence 3.2.4.18.(7) and Sentences 3.2.4.22.(2) and (3), a fire alarm system shall not incorporate manual silencing switches other than those installed inside the fire alarm control unit. (See Note A-3.2.4.6.(2).)
Signals to Fire Department
1) A single stage fire alarm system installed in a building of assembly occupancy that has an occupant load more than 300 shall be designed to notify the fire department, in conformance with Sentence (4), that an alarm signal has been initiated.
2) A fire alarm system that includes waterflow-indicating devices shall be designed to notify the fire department in conformance with Sentence (4) when an alarm is initiated.
3) A 2-stage fire alarm system shall be designed to notify the fire department, in conformance with Sentence (4), that an alert signal has been initiated.
4) Notification of the fire department, as required by Sentences (1), (2) and (3), shall be provided in conformance with CAN/ULC-S561, “Installation and Services for Fire Signal Receiving Centres and Systems.” (See Note A-3.2.4.7.(4).)
5) Where a single stage fire alarm system is installed in a building that is not sprinklered throughout and any Sentences (1), (7) or (8) does not apply, a legible notice that is not easily removed shall be affixed to the wall near each manual station stating
a) that the fire department is to be notified in the event of a fire emergency, and
b) the emergency telephone number for the municipality or for the fire
department (see Note A-3.2.4.7.(5)(b)).
6) Helicopter landing areas on roofs shall be provided with telephone extensions or means to notify the fire department.
7) A fire alarm system installed in a building containing an ambulatory clinic occupancy referred to in Article 3.1.2.7. shall be designed to notify the fire department, in conformance with Sentence (4), that an alarm signal has been initiated.
3.2.4.6.
3.2.4.7.
3-88 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 3.2.4.9.
3.2.4.8.
8) A single-stage fire alarm system installed in a care occupancy shall be designed to notify the fire department, in conformance with Sentence (4), that an alarm signal has been initiated.
Annunciator and Zone Indication
1) Except as permitted by Sentences (3) to (5), an annunciator shall be installed in close proximity to a building entrance that faces a street or an access route for fire department vehicles that complies with Sentence 3.2.5.5.(1).
2) Except as permitted by Sentence (6), the annunciator required by Sentence (1) shall have separate zone indication of the actuation of the alarm initiating devices in each
a) floor area so that the area of coverage for each zone in a building that is not sprinklered is not more than 2 000 m2,
b) floor area so that the area of coverage for each zone is neither i) more than one storey, nor
ii) more than the system area limits specified in NFPA 13, “Installation of Sprinkler Systems,”
c) shaft required to be equipped with smoke detectors,
d) air-handling system required to be equipped with smoke detectors,
e) fire extinguishing system required by NFPA 96, “Ventilation Control and Fire Protection of Commercial Cooking Operations,”
f) contained use area,
g) impeded egress zone,
h) fire compartment required by Sentence 3.3.3.5.(2) or for egress purposes in
a care occupancy,
i) walkway having an occupancy permitted by Sentence 3.2.3.20.(1),
j) ambulatory clinic occupancy referred to in Article 3.1.2.7.,
k) sprinkler-protected window system installed in conformance with Article 3.1.7.6., and
l) floor area on either side of a horizontal exit.
(See Note A-3.2.4.8.(2).)
3) An annunciator need not be provided for a fire alarm system if not more than one zone indicator is required by Sentence (2).
4) If an annunciator is not installed as part of a fire alarm system in conformance with Sentence (1), a visual and audible trouble signal device shall be provided inside the main entrance of the building.
5) The requirements of Sentence (1) are waived in a building
a) in which an automatic sprinkler system is not installed,
b) that has an aggregate area for all storeys of not more than 2 000 m2,
c) that is not more than 3 storeys in building height, and
d) that has a single-stage fire alarm system.
6) The area limits of Clause (2)(a) are waived for an interior undivided open space used as an arena, a rink, or a swimming pool provided that other spaces in the building that are separated from the open space are individually zoned in accordance with the requirements of Sentence (2).
7) A fire alarm control unit installed in close proximity to a building entrance that faces a street or an access route for fire department vehicles that complies with Sentence 3.2.5.5.(1) is deemed to satisfy the requirement for an annunciator, provided all indicators required for an annunciator or trouble signal device are included on the control unit.
Electrical Supervision
1) Electrical supervision shall be provided for a fire alarm system.
2) If a fire alarm system in a building is required to have an annunciator by
Sentence 3.2.4.8.(1), except for hose valves, all valves controlling water supplies in a standpipe system shall be equipped with an electrically supervised switch for
3.2.4.9.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 3-89
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.2.4.10.
Division B
3.2.4.10.
transmitting a trouble signal to the annunciator in the event of movement of the valve handle.
3) An automatic sprinkler system shall be electrically supervised to indicate a supervisory signal on the building fire alarm system annunciator for each of the following:
a) movement of a valve handle that controls the supply of water to sprinklers,
b) loss of excess water pressure required to prevent false alarms in a wet pipe
system,
c) loss of air pressure in a dry pipe system,
d) loss of air pressure in a pressure tank,
e) a significant change in water level in any water storage container used for
firefighting purposes,
f) loss of power to any automatically starting fire pump (see
Note A-3.2.4.9.(3)(f)), and
g) a temperature approaching the freezing point in any dry pipe valve
enclosure or water storage container used for firefighting purposes.
4) A fire pump shall be electrically supervised as stipulated in NFPA 20, “Installation of Stationary Pumps for Fire Protection.”
5) Indication of a supervisory signal in accordance with Sentence (3) shall be transmitted to the fire department in conformance with Sentence 3.2.4.7.(4).
Fire Detectors
1) Fire detectors required by this Code shall be connected to the fire alarm system.
2) Except as permitted by Sentence (3), if a fire alarm system is required in a
building that is not sprinklered, fire detectors shall be installed in the following spaces:
a) storage rooms not within dwelling units,
b) service rooms not within dwelling units,
c) janitors’ rooms,
d) rooms in which hazardous substances are to be used or stored (see
Note A-3.3.1.2.(1)),
e) elevator hoistways and dumbwaiter shafts,
f) laundry rooms in buildings of residential occupancy, but not those within
dwelling units,
g) rooms or premises not intended for the public of a building classified as
Group A, Division 1 major occupancy,
h) suites whose major occupancy is Group C and whose detector must be
installed near a doorway,
i) rooms not within a suite in a building classified as a Group C major occupancy,
and
j) elevator landings located inside a dwelling unit.
3) Fire detectors required by Sentence (2) need not be provided within floor areas that are sprinklered.
4) Fire detectors required by Sentence (2) shall be installed in elevator hoistways and dumbwaiter shafts where a sprinkler system is not installed within the hoistway or shaft.
5) Fire detectors required by Clauses (2)(e), (f), (g), (h) and (j) and Sentence (4) shall be minimum fixed temperature and rate-of-rise heat detectors.
Smoke Detectors
1) If a fire alarm system is installed, smoke detectors shall be installed in
a) each sleeping room and each corridor serving as part of a means of egress
from sleeping rooms in portions of a building classified as a Group B major
occupancy,
b) each room in a contained use area and corridors serving those rooms,
c) each corridor in portions of a building classified as a Group A, Division 1 major occupancy,
3.2.4.11.
3-90 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
3.2.4.14.
3.2.4.12.
3.2.4.13.
3.2.4.14.
(See Note A-3.2.4.11.(1).)
2) Deleted.
3) Smoke detectors required in the sleeping rooms of a care, treatment or detention occupancy shall, upon actuation, provide an audible and visible signal to staff serving those rooms so that the room or location containing the actuated smoke detector can be easily identified. (See Note A-3.2.4.11.(3).)
4) Smoke detectors required in Clause (1)(g) shall, upon actuation, recall the elevators served by the elevator machine room in which the smoke detector is installed.
5) Except as permitted in Sentences (6) and (7), smoke detectors installed in buildings required to be equipped with a fire alarm system shall be located near the entrance
to walkways described in Articles 3.2.3.19. and 3.2.3.20. or vestibules provided in conformance with Article 3.2.6.3.
6) Smoke detectors installed at the entrance to the walkways in conformance with Article 3.1.8.14. shall be deemed to meet the requirements of Sentence (5).
7) Smoke detectors required by Sentence (5) may be replaced with fire detectors in Group F occupancies where the smoke detectors may be subjected to false alarms due to the activities within the building.
Prevention of Smoke Circulation
1) If a fire alarm system is installed, an air-handling system shall be designed to prevent the circulation of smoke upon a signal from a duct-type smoke detector if the air-handling system
a) serves more than one storey,
b) serves more than one suite in a storey, or
c) serves more than one fire compartment required by Sentence 3.3.3.5.(2).
Vacuum Cleaning System Shutdown
1) A central vacuum cleaning system in a building equipped with a fire alarm system shall be designed to shut down upon actuation of the fire alarm system.
Elevator Emergency Return
1) Except as permitted by Sentence (3), in a building having elevators that serve storeys above the first storey and that are equipped with an automatic emergency recall feature, smoke detectors shall be installed in the elevator lobbies on the recall level so that when these smoke detectors are actuated, the elevators will automatically return directly to an alternate floor level.
2) Smoke detectors required by Sentence (1) shall be designed as part of the building fire alarm system.
3) The alternate floor recall feature required by Sentence (1) is not required if the floor area containing the recall level is sprinklered throughout.
d)
e)
f) g) h)
i)
each public corridor in portions of a building classified as a Group C major occupancy,
each exit stair shaft other than those serving only a Group A, Division 4 major occupancy or an open storage garage,
the vicinity of draft stops required by Article 3.2.8.6.,
elevator machine rooms,
intake openings for a linen and refuse chute conforming to Sentence 3.6.3.3.(6), and
a floor area containing an ambulatory clinic occupancy referred to in Article 3.1.2.7.
i) inthepubliccorridorservingtheambulatoryclinicoccupancy, and
ii) in the corridor inside the ambulatory clinic occupancy or if there is no corridor, near accesses to the treatment area, which includes operating, treatment or recovery rooms.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 3-91
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.2.4.15.
Division B
3.2.4.15.
4) Upon activation of the fire alarm, all elevators of the building equipped with automatic emergency recall shall be recalled to the recall level.
System Monitoring
1) An automatic sprinkler system shall be equipped with waterflow detecting devices and, if an annunciator is required by Article 3.2.4.8., shall be installed so that each device serves
a) not more than one storey, and
b) an area on each storey that is not more than the system area limits as
specified in NFPA 13, “Installation of Sprinkler Systems.”
2) Waterflow-detecting devices required by Sentence (1) shall be connected to the
fire alarm system so that, upon its actuation, an alert signal or an alarm signal is initiated. 3) The actuation of each waterflow detecting device required by Sentence (1) shall
be indicated separately on the fire alarm system annunciator.
Manual Stations
1) Except as permitted by Sentences (2) and (3), where a fire alarm system is installed, a manual station shall be installed in every floor area near
a) every principal entrance to the building, and
b) every exit.
(See Note A-3.2.4.16.(1).)
2) In a building, a manual station is not required at an exterior egress doorway from a suite that does not lead to an interior shared means of egress in a hotel or motel not more than 3 storeys in building height, provided each suite is served by an exterior exit facility leading directly to ground level.
3) In a building not more than 3 storeys in building height containing only dwelling units, a manual station is not required at each egress doorway from a dwelling unit.
4) In a building referred to in Sentences (2) or (3), manual stations shall be installed near doorways leading from shared interior corridors or the landing of an exit stair shaft on which a dwelling unit door opens directly to the exterior.
5) Where a fire alarm system is installed, a manually operated fire alarm station shall be installed on the roof at each exit from a helicopter landing area.
Alert and Alarm Signals
1) In a 2-stage fire alarm system described in Sentence 3.2.4.4.(2), the same audible
signal devices are permitted to be used to sound the alert signals and the alarm signals.
2) If audible signal devices with voice reproduction capabilities are intended for paging and similar voice message use, other than during a fire emergency, they shall be installed so that alert signals and alarm signals take priority over all other signals.
3) Audible signal devices forming part of a fire alarm or voice communication system shall not be used for playing music or background noise.
Audibility of Alarm Systems
(See Note A-3.2.4.18.)
1) Audible signal devices forming part of a fire alarm system shall be installed in a building so that
a) alarm signals are clearly audible throughout the floor area, and
b) alert signals are clearly audible in continuously staffed locations, and where
there are no continuously staffed locations, throughout the floor area.
(See Note A-3.2.4.18.(1).)
2) The sound pattern of an alarm signal shall conform to the temporal pattern defined in Clause 4.2 of ISO 8201, “Acoustics – Audible emergency evacuation signal.” (See Note A-3.2.4.18.(2).)
3.2.4.16.
3.2.4.17.
3.2.4.18.
3-92 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 3.2.4.18.
3) The sound patterns of alert signals shall be significantly different from the temporal patterns of alarm signals. (See Note A-3.2.4.18.(3).)
4) The fire alarm signal sound pressure level shall be not more than 95 dBA measured at a distance of 3 m from each audible signal device.
5) The sound pressure level in a sleeping room from a fire alarm audible signal device shall be not less than 75 dBA in a building of residential or care occupancy when any intervening doors between the device and the sleeping room are closed. (See Note A-3.2.4.18.(5).)
6) Except as required by Sentence (5), the sound pressure level from a fire alarm system’s audible signal device within a floor area shall be not less than 10 dBA above the ambient noise level without being less than 65 dBA.
7) Except as permitted by Sentence (11), audible signal devices located within a dwelling unit shall include a means for them to be manually silenced for a period of not more than 10 min, after which time the devices shall restore themselves to normal operation. (See Note A-3.2.4.18.(7).)
8) Audible signal devices within a dwelling unit or a suite of residential occupancy or a dwelling unit of care occupancy shall be connected to the fire alarm system
a) in a manner such that a single open circuit at one device will not impair the operation of other audible signal devices on that same circuit that serve the other dwelling units or suites of residential occupancy or other dwelling units of care occupancy, or
b) on separate signal circuits that are not connected to the devices in any other dwelling unit, public corridor or suite of residential occupancy or in other dwelling units or public corridors of care occupancy.
(See Note A-3.2.4.18.(8) and (9).)
9) In a building or part thereof classified as a residential or care occupancy,
a) separate circuits shall be provided for audible signal devices on each floor
area, and
b) audible signal devices within dwelling units or suites of residential occupancy
or in dwelling units of care occupancy shall be wired on separate signal circuits from those not within dwelling units or suites of residential occupancy or dwelling units of care occupancy.
(See Note A-3.2.4.18.(8) and (9).)
10) Audible signal devices shall be installed in a service space referred to in Sentence 3.2.1.1.(8) and shall be connected to the fire alarm system.
11) Audible signal devices within dwelling units that are wired on separate signal circuits need not include a means for silencing as required by Sentence (7) provided the fire alarm system includes a provision for an automatic signal silence within dwelling units, where
a) the automatic signal silence cannot occur within the first 60 s of operation or within the zone of initiation,
b) a subsequent alarm elsewhere in the building will reactuate the silenced audible signal devices within dwelling units,
c) after a period of not more than 10 min, the silenced audible signal devices will be restored to continuous audible signal if the alarm is not acknowledged, and
d) the voice communication systems referred to in Articles 3.2.4.22.
and 3.2.4.23. have a provision to override the automatic signal silence to allow the transmission of voice messages through silenced audible signal device circuits that serve the dwelling units.
(See Note A-3.2.4.18.(7).)
12) If a 2-stage fire alarm system has been installed with an automatic signal silence as described in Sentence (11), the system shall be designed so that any silenced audible signal devices serving dwelling units are reactuated whenever an alarm signal is required to be transmitted as part of the second stage. (See Note A-3.2.4.18.(7).)
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Amended Page Division B 3-93
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.2.4.19.
Division B
3.2.4.19.
Visual Signals
1) Visual signal devices shall be installed in addition to alarm signals
a) in buildings or portions thereof intended for use primarily by persons with a
hearing impairment,
b) in assembly occupancies in which music and other sounds associated with
performances could exceed 100 dBA,
c) in any floor area in which the ambient noise level is more than 87 dBA, and
d) in any floor area in which the occupants i) use ear protection devices,
ii) arelocatedinanaudiometricbooth,or
iii) arelocatedinsound-insulatingenclosures.
2) Visual signal devices required by Sentence (1) shall be installed so that the signal from at least one device is visible throughout the floor area or portion thereof in which they are installed. (See Note A-3.2.4.19.(2).)
3) Visual signal devices connected to the alarm system shall be installed near each audible signal installed in a dwelling unit unit or a suite of a residential occupancy and
in each dwelling unit of a care occupancy.
Smoke Alarms
1) Except as provided in Article 3.2.4.21., smoke alarms shall be installed in
accordance with this Article.
2) Except as required by Sentences (5) and (8), smoke alarms conforming to CAN/ULC-S531, “Smoke Alarms,” shall be installed
a) in each dwelling unit and in each sleeping room not within a dwelling unit, except
i) patients’orresidents’roomsinacareortreatmentoccupancy designed in accordance with Sentences 3.3.3.5.(2) to (13),
ii) sleeping rooms not within a dwelling unit of a detention occupancy, and
iii) a single-family type care occupancy sprinklered according to NFPA 13D, and
b) in a single-family type private seniors’ residence not equipped with a residential fire alarm system,
i) on each storey of the building,
ii) in each sleeping room,
iii) inalocationbetweenthesleepingroomsandtheremainder of the suite and if the sleeping rooms are served by a hallway within the suite, the smoke alarm shall be located in the hallway,
iv) in each corridor, and
v) in each rest or common activity area.
3) At least one smoke alarm shall be installed on each storey of a dwelling unit.
4) On any storey of a dwelling unit containing sleeping rooms, a smoke alarm shall be
installed
a) in each sleeping room, and
b) in a location between the sleeping rooms and the remainder of the storey,
and if the sleeping rooms are served by a hallway, the smoke alarm shall be located in the hallway.
5) Smoke alarms in a single-family type private seniors’ residence shall be
a) photoelectric,
b) interconnected and connected to visual signal devices that allow personnel
assigned to the sleeping rooms to see where the smoke alarm is triggered, and
c) connected to the fire department in accordance with CAN/ULC-S561,
“Installation and Services for Fire Signal Receiving Centres and Systems.”
6) A smoke alarm shall be installed on or near the ceiling.
3.2.4.20.
3-94 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
  © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
3.2.4.21.
3.2.4.21.
7)
a) b) c)
Except as permitted in Sentence (8), smoke alarms referred in Sentence (2) shall be installed with permanent connections to an electrical circuit (see
Note A-3.2.4.20.(7)(a)),
have no disconnect switch between the overcurrent device and the smoke alarm, and
in case the regular power supply to the smoke alarm is interrupted, be provided with a battery as an alternative power source that can continue to provide power to the smoke alarm for a period of no less than 7 days in the normal condition, followed by 4 minutes of alarm.
Suites of residential occupancy are permitted to be equipped with smoke detectors in lieu of smoke alarms, provided the smoke detectors
a) are capable of independently sounding audible signals within the individual suites,
b) except as permitted in Sentence (9), are installed in conformance with CAN/ULC-S524, “Installation of Fire Alarm Systems,” and
c) form part of the fire alarm system.
(See Note A-3.2.4.20.(8).)
9) Smoke detectors permitted to be installed in lieu of smoke alarms as stated in Sentence (8)
a) are permitted to sound localized alarms within individual suites, and need not sound an alarm throughout the rest of the building, and
b) shall sound localized alarms within dwelling units or suites with cooking equipment, and need not sound an alarm throughout the rest of the building and shall not sound an alert signal.
10) If more than one smoke alarm is required in a dwelling unit, the smoke alarms shall be wired so that the actuation of one smoke alarm will cause all smoke alarms within the dwelling unit to sound.
11) A smoke alarm required by Sentence (2) shall be installed in conformance with CAN/ULC-S553, “Installation of Smoke Alarms.”
12) Except as permitted in Sentence (13), a manually operated silencing device shall be incorporated within the circuitry of a smoke alarm installed in a dwelling unit so that it will silence the signal emitted by the smoke alarm for a period of not more than 10 min, after which the smoke alarm will reset and again sound the alarm if the level of smoke in the vicinity is sufficient to reactuate the smoke alarm.
13) Suites of residential occupancy equipped with smoke detectors installed to CAN/ULC-S524, “Installation of Fire Alarm Systems,” as part of the fire alarm system in lieu of smoke alarms as permitted by Sentence (8), need not incorporate the manually operated device required in Sentence (12). (See Note A-3.2.4.20.(8).)
14) The sound patterns of smoke alarms shall
a) meet the temporal patterns of alarm signals (see Note A-3.2.4.18.(2)), or
b) be a combination temporal pattern and voice relay.
Residential Fire Alarm Systems
1) A residential fire alarm system
a) shall be installed in a single-family type care occupancy sprinklered in
accordance with NFPA 13D,
b) may be installed in a single-family type private seniors’ residence not sprinklered
in accordance with NFPA 13D, and
c) may be installed in a dwelling unit provided the building is not equipped
with a fire alarm system, whether or not it is required.
2) In a single-family type care occupancy sprinklered in accordance with NFPA 13D, the residential fire alarm system shall
a) be equipped with smoke detectors i) on each storey of the building,
8)
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 3-95
   © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.2.4.21.
Division B
3-96 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
ii)
detecting device, or fire detector, cause an alarm signal to sound on all audible
signal devices in the system,
c) be designed so that when an alarm signal is actuated, it cannot be silenced
automatically before a period of time has elapsed that is not less than 20 min,
d) be designed to notify the fire department, in conformance with
Sentence 3.2.4.7.(4), that an alarm signal has been initiated,
e) be equipped with a display that shall
i) beinstallednearthemainexitdoor,and ii) indicatethesprinklersandsmokedetectors,
f) be equipped with a control centre,
g) be electrically supervised, as well as the sprinkler system,
h) be equipped with a manual station at the main entrance,
i) be conform to Article 3.2.4.18. for audibility of signals,
j) be equipped with visual signal devices conform to Sentence 3.2.4.19.(3), and
k) be connected to an emergency power supply
i) capable of providing supervisory power for not less than 24 h and, immediately following that period, emergency power under full load for not less than 5 min, and
ii) designed so that, in the event of a failure of the normal power source, there is an immediate automatic transfer to emergency power.
3) In a single-family type private seniors’ residence not sprinklered, the residential fire alarm system shall
a) be equipped with photoelectric smoke detectors
i) on each storey of the building,
ii) insleepingrooms,thesmokedetectorsshallbeconnectedto visual alarms that allow personnel assigned to the rooms to see where the smoke detector has been actuated,
iii) ineachrestorcommonactivityarea,and
iv) in corridors,
b) be single-stage and, upon the operation of any manual station or fire detector,
cause an alarm signal to sound on all audible signal devices in the system,
c) be designed so that when an alarm signal is actuated, it cannot be silenced
automatically before a period of time has elapsed that is not less than 20 min,
d) be designed to notify the fire department, in conformance with
Sentence 3.2.4.7.(4), that an alarm signal has been initiated,
e) be equipped with a display that shall
i) beinstallednearthemainexitdoor,and ii) indicate the smoke detectors,
f) be equipped with a control centre,
g) be electrically supervised,
h) be equipped with a manual station at the main entrance,
i) be conform to Article 3.2.4.18. for audibility of signals,
j) be equipped with visual signal devices conform to Sentence 3.2.4.19.(3), and
k) be connected to an emergency power supply
i) capable of providing supervisory power for not less than 24 h and, immediately following that period, emergency power under full load for not less than 30 min, and
ii) designed so that, in the event of a failure of the normal power source, there is an immediate automatic transfer to emergency power.
4) In a dwelling unit, smoke alarms required by Article 3.2.4.20. are permitted to be replaced by a residential fire alarm system that shall
a) be equipped with smoke detectors
i) on each storey of the dwelling unit,
insleepingrooms,thesmokedetectorsshallbeconnectedto visual alarms that allow personnel assigned to the rooms to see where the smoke detector has been actuated, and
in corridors,
iii)
b) be single-stage and, upon the operation of any manual station, waterflow
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
3.2.4.22.
3.2.4.22.
b) be single-stage and, upon the operation of any manual station or fire detector, cause an alarm signal to sound on all audible signal devices in the system,
c) be equipped with a manual station at the main entrance,
d) be conform to Article 3.2.4.18. for audibility of signals,
e) be equipped with visual signal devices conform to Sentence 3.2.4.19.(3),
f) be designed so that when an alarm signal is actuated, it cannot be silenced
automatically before a period of time has elapsed that is not less than
20 min, and
g) be connected to an emergency power supply
i) capable of providing supervisory power for not less than 24 h and, immediately following that period, emergency power under full load for not less than 5 min, and
ii) designed so that, in the event of a failure of the normal power source, there is an immediate automatic transfer to emergency power.
Two-Way Voice Communication Systems for High Buildings
1) A voice communication system required by Subsection 3.2.6. shall
a) consist of a two-way means of communication with the central alarm and
control facility and to the mechanical control centre from each floor area, and
b) be capable of broadcasting prerecorded, synthesized, or live messages from
the central alarm and control facility that are audible and intelligible in all parts of the building, except that this requirement does not apply to elevator cars (see Note A-3.2.4.22.(1)(b)).
2) The voice communication system referred to in Sentence (1) shall include
a means to silence the alarm signal in a single stage fire alarm system while voice instructions are being transmitted, but only after the alarm signal has initially sounded for not less than 30 s.
3) The voice communication system referred to in Sentence (1) shall include a means to silence the alert signal and the alarm signal in a 2-stage fire alarm system while voice instructions are being transmitted, but only after the alert signal has initially sounded for not less than
a) 10 s in hospitals that have supervisory personnel on duty for twenty-four hours each day, or
b) 30 s for all other occupancies.
4) The voice communication system referred to in Clause (1)(b) shall be designed so that the alarm signal in a 2-stage fire alarm system can be selectively transmitted to any zone or zones while maintaining an alert signal or selectively transmitting voice instructions to any other zone or zones in the building.
5) The 2-way communication system referred to in Clause (1)(a) shall be installed so that emergency telephones are located in each floor area near exit stair shafts.
6) Visual signal devices required by Sentence 3.2.4.19.(1) shall continue to emit a visible signal while voice instructions are being transmitted.
7) Where the facility is not equipped with staff trained to provide instructions over the loudspeakers, a pre-recorded message shall be provided.
ii) iii)
in sleeping rooms, and inalocationbetweenthesleepingroomsandtheremainder of the storey and if the sleeping rooms are served by a hallway within the storey, the smoke alarm shall be located in the hallway,
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Amended Page Division B 3-97
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.2.4.23.
Division B
3.2.4.23.
One-Way Voice Communication Systems
1) Except for Group B, Division 1 and Group F, Division 1 major occupancies, where a fire alarm system is required under Subsection 3.2.4., a one-way voice communication system shall be installed in buildings where a 2-stage fire alarm system is installed and
a) whose occupant load exceeds 1 000, or
b) where fire compartments are provided for the partial egress of the buildings in
a care occupancy.
2) The one-way voice communication system required by Sentence (1) shall consist of loudspeakers that are
a) operated from the central alarm and control facility or, in the absence of such a facility, from a designated area, and
b) except in elevator cars, designed and located so that transmitted messages are audible and intelligible in all parts of the building.
(See Note A-3.2.4.22.(1)(b).)
3) Where the facility is not equipped with staff trained to provide instructions over the loudspeakers, a pre-recorded message shall be provided.
4) The one-way voice communication system required by Sentence (1) shall meet the silencing and transmission requirements of Sentences 3.2.4.22.(2) to (4) and (6).
Provisions for Firefighting
(See Note A-3.)
Access to Above-Grade Storeys
1) Except for storeys below the first storey, direct access for firefighting shall be provided from the outdoors to every storey that is not sprinklered throughout and whose floor level is less than 25 m above grade, by at least one unobstructed window or access panel for each 15 m of wall in each wall required to face a street by Subsection 3.2.2.
2) An opening for access required by Sentence (1) shall
a) have a sill no higher than 900 mm above the inside floor, and
b) be not less than 1 100 mm high by not less than
i) 550 mm wide for a building not designed for the storage or use of dangerous goods, or
ii) 750mmwideforabuildingdesignedforthestorageoruse of dangerous goods.
3) Access panels above the first storey shall be readily openable from both inside and outside, or the opening shall be glazed with plain glass.
Access to Basements
1) Direct access from at least one street shall be provided from the outdoors in a building that is not sprinklered to each basement having a horizontal dimension more than 25 m.
2) The access required by Sentence (1) is permitted to be provided by
a) doors, windows or other means that provide an opening not less than
1 100 mm high and 550 mm wide, with a sill no higher than 900 mm above
the inside floor, or
b) an interior stairway immediately accessible from the outdoors.
Roof Access
1) Except as permitted by Sentence (2), on a building more than 3 storeys in building height where the slope of the roof is less than 1 in 4, all main roof areas shall be provided with direct access from the floor areas immediately below, either by
a) a stairway, or
b) a hatch not less than 550 mm by 900 mm with a fixed ladder.
2) The roof of a building conforming to Article 3.2.2.50. or 3.2.2.58. shall be provided with access by a stairway. (See Note A-3.2.5.3.(2).)
3.2.5. 3.2.5.1.
3.2.5.2.
3.2.5.3.
3-98 Division B
Amended Page National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 3.2.5.7.
3.2.5.4.
3.2.5.5.
Access Routes
1) A building which is more than 3 storeys in building height or more than 600 m2 in building area shall be provided with access routes for fire department vehicles
a) to the building face having a principal entrance, and
b) to each building face having access openings for firefighting as required by
Articles 3.2.5.1. and 3.2.5.2.
(See Note A-3.2.5.4.(1).)
Location of Access Routes
1) Access routes required by Article 3.2.5.4. shall be located so that the principal entrance and every access opening required by Articles 3.2.5.1. and 3.2.5.2. are located not less than 3 m and not more than 15 m from the closest portion of the access route required for fire department use, measured horizontally from the face of the building.
2) Access routes shall be provided to a building so that
a) for a building provided with a fire department connection, a fire department
pumper vehicle can be located adjacent to the hydrants referred to in
Article 3.2.5.15.,
b) for a building not provided with a fire department connection, a fire
department pumper vehicle can be located so that the length of the access route from a hydrant to the vehicle plus the unobstructed path of travel for the firefighter from the vehicle to the building is not more than 90 m, and
c) the unobstructed path of travel for the firefighter from the vehicle to the building is not more than 45 m.
3) The unobstructed path of travel for the firefighter required by Sentence (2) from the vehicle to the building shall be measured from the vehicle to the fire department connection provided for the building, except that if no fire department connection is provided, the path of travel shall be measured to the principal entrance of the building.
4) If a portion of a building is completely cut off from the remainder of the building so that there is no access to the remainder of the building, the access routes required by Sentence (2) shall be located so that the unobstructed path of travel from the vehicle to one entrance of each portion of the building is not more than 45 m.
Access Route Design
1) A portion of a roadway or yard provided as a required access route for fire department use shall
a) have a clear width not less than 6 m, unless it can be shown that lesser widths are satisfactory,
b) have a centre-line radius not less than 12 m,
c) have an overhead clearance not less than 5 m,
d) have a change of gradient not more than 1 in 12.5 over a minimum distance of 15 m,
e) be designed to support the expected loads imposed by firefighting equipment and be surfaced with concrete, asphalt or other material designed to permit accessibility under all climatic conditions,
f) have turnaround facilities for any dead-end portion of the access route more than 90 m long, and
g) be connected with a public thoroughfare.
(See Note A-3.2.5.6.(1).)
2) For buildings conforming to Article 3.2.2.50. or 3.2.2.58., no portion of the access route described in Sentence 3.2.2.10.(3) shall be more than 20 m below the highest floor level.
Water Supply
1) Every building shall be provided with an adequate water supply for firefighting.
(See Note A-3.2.5.7.(1).)
3.2.5.6.
3.2.5.7.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 3-99
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.2.5.8.
Division B
3.2.5.8.
Standpipe Systems
1) Except as permitted by Sentence 3.2.5.9.(4), a standpipe system shall be installed in a building that is
a) more than 3 storeys in building height,
b) more than 14 m high measured between grade and the ceiling of the top
storey, or
c) not more than 14 m high measured between grade and the ceiling of the top
storey but has a building area exceeding the area shown in Table 3.2.5.8. for the applicable building height unless the building is sprinklered throughout.
Table 3.2.5.8.
Building Limits without Standpipe Systems Forming Part of Sentence 3.2.5.8.(1)
Occupancy Classification
Building Area, m2 2 storeys
2 000 1 500 3 000 1 500 2 000
Group A
Group C
Group D
GroupF, Division 2 GroupF, Division 3
3.2.5.9.
1 storey
2 500 2 000 4 000 1 500 3 000
Standpipe System Design
3 storeys
1 500 1 000 2 000 1 000 1 000
3.2.5.10.
1) Except as provided in Sentences (2) to (6), Articles 3.2.5.10. and 3.2.5.11., and Sentence 3.2.4.9.(2), the design, construction, installation and testing of a standpipe system shall conform to NFPA 14, “Installation of Standpipe and Hose Systems.”
2) A dry standpipe that is not connected to a water supply shall not be considered as fulfilling the requirements of this Article.
3) If more than one standpipe is provided, the total water supply need not be more than 30 L/s.
4) A standpipe need not be installed in a storage garage conforming to Article 3.2.2.90., provided the building is not more than 15 m high.
5) The residual water pressure at the design flow rate at the topmost hose connection of a standpipe system that is required to be installed in a building is permitted to be less than 690 kPa provided
a) the building is sprinklered throughout,
b) the water supply at the base of the sprinkler riser is capable of meeting,
without a fire pump, the design flow rate and pressure demand of the
sprinkler system, including the inside and outside hose allowance, and
c) fire protection equipment is available to deliver, by means of the fire
department connection, the full demand flow rate at a residual water pressure of 690 kPa at the topmost hose connection of the standpipe system (see Note A-3.2.5.9.(5)(c)).
6) A fire department connection shall be provided for every standpipe system.
7) The connection of a standpipe system to the potable water system shall be
protected against back-siphonage or back pressure backflow in conformance with the NPC.
Hose Connections
1) Hose connections shall be located in exits, in accordance with NFPA 14,
“Installation of Standpipe and Hose Systems.”
2) Hose connections are not required within a floor area.
3-100 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
    © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 3.2.5.12.
3.2.5.11.
3) Hose connections shall be provided with sufficient clearance to permit the use of a standard fire department hose key.
4) Except as permitted by Sentence (5), 64 mm diam hose connections shall be installed in a standpipe system.
5) Hose connections for 64 mm diam hose are not required in a building that is not more than 25 m high, measured between grade and the ceiling level of the top storey and in which an automatic sprinkler system is not installed.
Hose Stations
1) Hose stations for 38 mm diam hose shall be installed for a standpipe system in a
building that is not sprinklered throughout.
2) Hose stations for a 38 mm diam hose shall be installed for a standpipe system
within every floor area that is not sprinklered throughout. (See Note A-3.2.5.11.(2).)
3) Hose stations shall be located in the floor area within 5 m of exits and at other
locations to provide coverage of the entire floor area.
4) A hose station located on one side of a horizontal exit shall be considered to
serve only the floor area on that side of the horizontal exit.
5) A hose cabinet shall be located so that its door, when fully opened, will not
obstruct the required width of a means of egress.
6) Where a building or part thereof is used as a distillery and the building is sprinklered in conformance with Article 3.2.5.12., small hose (38 mm) stations are permitted to be supplied from interior sprinkler piping.
7) Where a hose station is provided in grain handling and storage facilities in which combustible dusts are produced in quantities or concentrations that create an explosion or fire hazard, fog and fine spray nozzles shall be used instead of nozzles that discharge a solid stream of water to prevent combustible dusts from being raised into suspension.
Automatic Sprinkler Systems
1) Except as permitted by Sentences (2), (3) and (4), an automatic sprinkler system shall be designed, constructed, installed and tested in conformance with NFPA 13, “Installation of Sprinkler Systems.” (See Note A-3.2.5.12.(1).)
2) Despite Sentence (1), NFPA 13R, “Installation of Sprinkler Systems in Low-Rise Residential Occupancies,” is permitted to be used for the design, construction and installation of an automatic sprinkler system installed in a residential occupancy not more than 4 storeys in building height conforming to Articles 3.2.2.47., 3.2.2.48., 3.2.2.51. or 3.2.2.54. (See Note A-3.2.5.12.(2).)
3) Despite Sentence (1), NFPA 13D, “Installation of Sprinkler Systems in One- and Two-Family Dwellings and Manufactured Homes,” is permitted to be used for the design, construction and installation of an automatic sprinkler system installed in
a) a building of residential occupancy throughout containing not more than 2 dwelling units, or
b) a single-family type care occupancy whose water supply capacity for the sprinkler system is not less than 30 min.
4) If a building contains fewer than 9 sprinklers, the water supply for these sprinklers is permitted to be supplied from the domestic water system for the building provided the required flow for the sprinklers can be met by the domestic system.
5) If a water supply serves both an automatic sprinkler system and a system serving other equipment, control valves shall be provided so that either system can be shut off independently.
6) Notwithstanding the requirements of the standards referenced in Sentences (1) and (2) regarding the installation of automatic sprinkler systems, sprinklers shall not be omitted in any room or closet in the storey immediately below a roof assembly. (See Note A-3.2.5.12.(6).)
3.2.5.12.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 3-101
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.2.5.13.
Division B
3.2.5.13.
7) Notwithstanding the requirements of the standards referenced in Sentence (1) regarding the installation of automatic sprinkler systems, in buildings conforming
to Article 3.2.2.50. or 3.2.2.58., sprinklers shall be provided for balconies and decks, where they are of combustible construction, exceeding 610 mm in depth measured perpendicular to the exterior wall. (See Note A-3.2.5.12.(7).)
8) Sprinklers in elevator machine rooms shall have a temperature rating not less than that required for an intermediate temperature classification and shall be protected against physical damage. (See Note A-3.2.5.12.(8).)
9) Despite Sentence (1) and subject to Sentence (6), sprinklers are not required in a toilet room or a washroom of a suite of a residential occupancy or a dwelling unit of a care occupancy
a) having an area of not more than 5.1 m2, and
b) that does not contain equipment such as washers, dryers, a heating or
ventilation equipment or service water heaters.
10) Despite Sentence (1) and subject to Sentence (6), sprinklers are not required in a closet or a clothes closet of a suite of a residential occupancy or a dwelling unit of a care occupancy
a) having an area of not more than 2.2 m2, and
b) that does not contain equipment such as washers, dryers, a heating or
ventilation equipment or service water heaters.
11) The connection of a sprinkler system to the potable water system shall be protected against back-siphonage or back-pressure backflow in accordance with the NPC.
Combustible Sprinkler Piping
1) Combustible sprinkler piping shall be used only for a wet pipe system in
residential occupancies and other light-hazard occupancies. (See Note A-3.2.5.13.(1).)
2) Combustible sprinkler piping shall meet the requirements of ULC/ORD-C199P,
“Combustible Piping for Sprinkler Systems.”
3) Except as permitted by Sentence (5), combustible sprinkler piping shall be separated from the area served by the sprinkler system, and from any other fire compartment, by ceilings, walls, or soffits consisting of, as a minimum,
a) lath and plaster,
b) gypsum board not less than 9.5 mm thick,
c) plywood not less than 13 mm thick, or
d) a suspended membrane ceiling with
i) steel suspension grids, and
ii) lay-inpanelsortileshavingamassnotlessthan1.7kg/m2.
4) Except as permitted by Sentence (5), combustible sprinkler piping may be located above a ceiling provided that the distance between the edge of any ceiling opening that is not protected in conformance with Sentence (3) and the nearest sprinkler is
not more than 300 mm.
5) Where combustible sprinkler piping has been tested in conformance with ULC/ORD-C199P, “Combustible Piping for Sprinkler Systems,” and has been shown to meet the requirements therein without additional protection, conformance to Sentences (3) and (4) is not required.
Sprinklered Service Space
1) An automatic sprinkler system shall be installed in a service space referred to in
Sentence 3.2.1.1.(8) if flooring for access within the service space is other than catwalks. 2) The sprinkler system required by Sentence (1) shall be equipped with waterflow
detecting devices, with each device serving not more than one storey.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
3.2.5.14.
3-102 Division B
  © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 3.2.6.1.
3.2.5.15.
3.2.5.16.
3) The waterflow detecting devices required by Sentence (2) shall be connected to the fire alarm system, to
a) initiate an alert signal in a 2-stage system or an alarm signal in a single stage system, and
b) indicate separately on the fire alarm system annunciator the actuation of each device.
Fire Department Connections
1) The fire department connection for a standpipe system shall be located so that the distance from the fire department connection to a hydrant is not more than 45 m and is unobstructed.
2) The fire department connection for an automatic sprinkler system shall be located so that the distance from the fire department connection to a hydrant is not more than 45 m and is unobstructed.
Portable Fire Extinguishers
1) Portable extinguishers shall be provided and installed in accordance with
a) provincial or territorial regulations or municipal bylaws, or
b) the NFC, in the absence of the regulations or bylaws referred to in Clause (a).
2) In a Group B, Division 1 major occupancy, portable fire extinguishers are permitted to be located in secure areas, or in lockable cabinets provided
a) identical keys for all cabinets are located at all supervisory or security stations, or
b) electrical remote release devices are provided and are connected to an emergency power supply.
Protection from Freezing
1) Equipment forming part of a fire protection system shall be protected from freezing if
a) it could be adversely affected by freezing temperatures, and
b) it is located in an unheated area.
Fire Pumps
1) If a fire pump is installed, it shall be installed in accordance with the requirements of NFPA 20, “Installation of Stationary Pumps for Fire Protection.” (See Note A-3.2.5.18.(1).)
Additional Requirements for High Buildings
(See Note A-3.2.6.)
Application
1) This Subsection applies to a building
a) of Group A, D, E or F major occupancy classification that is more than
i) 36mhigh,measuredbetweengradeandthefloorlevelof the top storey, or
ii) 18mhigh,measuredbetweengradeandthefloorlevelof the top storey, and in which the cumulative or total occupant load on or above any storey above grade, other than the first storey, divided by 1.8 times the width in metres of all exit stairs at that storey, exceeds 300,
b) containing a Group B major occupancy in which the floor level of the highest storey of that major occupancy is more than 18 m above grade,
c) containing a floor area or part of a floor area located above the third storey designed or intended as a Group B, Division 2 or 3 occupancy, or
d) containing a Group C major occupancy whose floor level is more than 18 m above grade.
3.2.5.17.
3.2.5.18.
3.2.6. 3.2.6.1.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 3-103
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.2.6.2.
Division B
3.2.6.2.
Limits to Smoke Movement
1) A building to which this Subsection applies shall be designed in accordance with Sentences (2) to (6) and Article 3.2.6.3. to limit the danger to occupants and firefighters from exposure to smoke in a building fire.
2) A building referred to in Sentence (1) shall be designed so that, during a period of 2 h after the start of a fire, each exit stair serving storeys below the lowest exit level will not contain more than 1% by volume of contaminated air from the fire floor, assuming an outdoor temperature equal to the January design temperature on a 2.5% basis determined in accordance with Subsection 1.1.3. (See Note A-3.2.6.2.(2).)
3) Each stairway that serves storeys above the lowest exit level shall have a vent to the outdoors, at or near the bottom of the stair shaft, that
a) has an openable area of 0.05 m2 for every door between the stair shaft and a floor area, but not less than 1.8 m2,
b) opens directly to the outdoors or into a vestibule that has a similar opening to the outdoors, and
c) has a door or closure that
i) is openable manually, and
ii) canremainintheopenpositionduringafireemergency.
(See Note A-3.2.6.2.(3).)
4) Measures shall be taken to limit movement of smoke from a fire in a floor area below the lowest exit storey into upper storeys. (See Note A-3.2.6.2.(4).)
5) Except for exhaust fans in kitchens, washrooms and bathrooms in dwelling units, and except for fans used for smoke venting as required by Article 3.2.6.6., air moving fans in a system that serves more than 2 storeys shall be designed and installed so that in the event of a fire these fans can be stopped by means of a manually operated switch at the central alarm and control facility.
6) Except as provided in Article 3.2.4.12., air-handling systems used to provide make-up air to public corridors serving suites in a Group C major occupancy shall not shut down automatically upon activation of the fire alarm so as to maintain corridor pressurization. (See Note A-3.2.6.2.(6).)
Connected Buildings
1) If a building described in Article 3.2.6.1. is connected to any other building, measures shall be taken to limit movement of contaminated air from one building into another during a fire. (See Note A-3.2.6.3.(1).)
Emergency Operation of Passenger Elevators
1) Manual emergency recall shall be provided for all passenger elevators serving
storeys above the first storey.
2) Key-operated switches for emergency recall required by Sentence (1) shall be provided in a conspicuous location at
a) each passenger elevator lobby on the recall level, and
b) the central alarm and control facility required by Article 3.2.6.7.
3) In-car emergency service switches shall be provided in all passenger elevator cars.
4) Keys to operate the switches required by Sentences (2) and (3) shall be
a) provided in a suitably identified box conspicuously located on the outside of a passenger elevator hoistway near the central alarm and control facility
required by Article 3.2.6.7., and
b) kept at the central alarm and control facility.
Passenger Elevator for Use by Firefighters
1) At least one passenger elevator shall be provided for use by firefighters in
conformance with Sentences (2) to (6).
3.2.6.3.
3.2.6.4.
3.2.6.5.
3-104 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 3.2.6.6.
3.2.6.6.
2) The passenger elevator referred to in Sentence (1) shall have a useable platform area not less than 2.2 m2 and shall be capable of carrying a load of 900 kg to the top floor that it serves from a landing on the storey containing the entrance for firefighter access referred to in Articles 3.2.5.4. and 3.2.5.5. within 1 min.
3) Each passenger elevator for use by firefighters shall
a) be provided with a closure at each shaft opening so that the interlock
mechanism remains mechanically engaged and electrical continuity is maintained in the interlock circuits and associated wiring for a period of not less than 1 h when the assembly is subjected to the standard fire exposure described in CAN/ULC-S104, “Fire Tests of Door Assemblies,”
b) be protected with a vestibule containing no occupancy and separated from the remainder of the floor area by a fire separation having a fire-resistance rating not less than 45 min, or
c) be protected with a corridor containing no occupancy and separated from the remainder of the building by a fire separation having a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h.
4) Except as permitted by Sentence (5), a passenger elevator referred to in Sentence (1) shall be capable of providing transportation from the storey containing the entrance for firefighter access referred to in Articles 3.2.5.4. and 3.2.5.5. to every floor that is above grade in the building and that is normally served by the passenger elevator system.
5) If it is necessary to change passenger elevators to reach any floor referred to in Sentence (4), the system shall be designed so that not more than one change of passenger elevator is required when travelling to any floor in the building from the storey containing the entrance for firefighter access referred to in Articles 3.2.5.4. and 3.2.5.5.
6) Electrical conductors for the operation of the passenger elevator referred to in Sentence (1) shall be
a) installed in service spaces conforming to Section 3.6. that do not contain other combustible material, or
b) conform to CAN/ULC-S139, “Fire Test for Evaluation of Integrity of Electrical Power, Data and Optical Fibre Cables,” including the hose stream application, to provide a circuit integrity rating of not less than 1 h, from the service entrance of the emergency power supply, or the normal service entrance of the normal power supply, to the equipment served.
7) Where a sump pump is installed to drain the elevator pit provided for firefighters, it shall operate using cables conforming to Clauses (6)(a) and (b).
8) The pictogram of a firefighter’s helmet required by Chapter IV, Elevators and Other Elevating Devices, of the Construction Code (chapter B-1.1, r. 2) shall be installed beside the elevator hoistway doorway of each elevator for firefighters.
Venting to Aid Firefighting
1) Means of venting each floor area to the outdoors shall be provided by windows,
wall panels, smoke shafts, or the building exhaust system. (See Note A-3.2.6.6.(1).)
2) Fixed glass windows shall not be used for the venting required by Sentence (1)
if the breaking of the windows could endanger pedestrians below.
3) Openable windows used for the venting required by Sentence (1) shall be permanently marked so that they are easily identifiable.
4) Elevator hoistways shall not be designed for the venting required by Sentence (1).
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 3-105
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.2.6.7.
Division B
3.2.6.7.
Central Alarm and Control Facility
1) A central alarm and control facility shall be provided on the storey containing the entrance for firefighter access referred to in Articles 3.2.5.4. and 3.2.5.5. in a location that
a) is readily accessible to firefighters entering the building, and
b) takes into account the effect of background noise likely to occur under fire
emergency conditions, so that the facility can properly perform its required
function under these conditions.
(See Note A-3.2.6.7.(1).)
2) The central alarm and control facility required by Sentence (1) shall include
a) means to control the voice communication system required by
Article 3.2.6.8., so that messages can be sent to i) all loudspeakers simultaneously,
ii) individual floor areas, and iii) exit stairwells,
b) means to indicate audibly and visually alert signals and alarm signals and a switch to
i) silencetheaudibleportionofthesesignals,and
ii) indicatevisuallythattheaudibleportionhasbeensilenced,
c) means to indicate visually that passenger elevators are on emergency recall,
d) an annunciator conforming to Article 3.2.4.8.,
e) means to transmit alert signals and alarm signals to the fire department in conformance with Article 3.2.4.7.,
f) means to release hold-open devices on doors to vestibules,
g) means to manually actuate alarm signals in the building selectively to any
zone or zones,
h) means to silence the alarm signals referred to in Clause (g) in conformance
with Sentences 3.2.4.22.(2) and 3.2.4.22.(3),
i) means, as appropriate to the measure for fire safety provided in the building,
to
i) actuate auxiliary equipment identified in Articles 3.2.6.2.,
3.2.6.3. and 3.2.6.6., or
ii) communicate with a continually staffed auxiliary
equipment control centre,
j) means to communicate with telephones in passenger elevator cars, separate
from connections to firefighters’ telephones, if passenger elevator cars are required by ASME A17.1/CSA B44, “Safety Code for Elevators and Escalators,” to be equipped with a telephone,
k) means to indicate visually, individual sprinkler system waterflow signals,
l) means to indicate audibly and visually, sprinkler and standpipe system
supervisory signals and trouble signals,
m) a switch to silence the audible portion of a supervisory signal or a trouble
signal, and
n) visual indication that the audible portion of a supervisory signal or a trouble
signal has been silenced.
(See Note A-3.2.6.7.(2).)
Voice Communication System
1) A voice communication system conforming to Article 3.2.4.22. shall be provided in a building if
a) the floor of the top storey is more than 36 m above grade, or
b) a floor area or part of a floor area located above the third storey is designed or
intended for use as a Group B, Division 2 or 3 occupancy.
Testing
1) The systems for control of smoke movement and mechanical venting required by Articles 3.2.6.2. and 3.2.6.6. shall be tested to ensure satisfactory operation. (See Note A-3.2.6.9.(1).)
3.2.6.8.
3.2.6.9.
3-106 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 3.2.7.4.
3.2.7. 3.2.7.1.
Lighting and Emergency Power Systems Minimum Lighting Requirements
1) An exit, a public corridor, or a corridor providing access to exit for the public
or serving patients’ or residents’ sleeping rooms or classrooms shall be equipped to provide illumination to an average level not less than 50 lx at floor or tread level and at angles and intersections at changes of level where there are stairs or ramps.
2) The minimum value of the illumination required by Sentence (1) shall be not less than 10 lx.
3) Rooms and spaces used by the public shall be illuminated as described in Article 9.34.2.7.
4) Lighting outlets in a building of residential occupancy shall be provided in conformance with Subsection 9.34.2.
Recessed Lighting Fixtures
1) A recessed lighting fixture shall not be located in an insulated ceiling unless the
fixture is designed for this type of installation.
Emergency Lighting
1) Emergency lighting shall be provided to an average level of illumination not less than 10 lx at floor or tread level in
a) exits,
b) principal routes providing access to exit in open floor areas and in service rooms,
c) corridors used by the public,
d) corridors serving sleeping rooms in a treatment occupancy,
e) corridors serving sleeping rooms in a care occupancy, except corridors located inside a dwelling unit,
f) corridors serving classrooms,
g) underground walkways,
h) public corridors,
i) floor areas or parts thereof where the public may congregate i) inGroupA,Division1occupancies,or
ii) inGroupA,Division2and3occupancieshavinganoccupant load of 60 or more,
j) floor areas or parts thereof of daycare centres where persons are cared for,
k) food preparation areas in commercial kitchens,
l) public washrooms that are equipped to serve more than one person at a time, and
m) means of egress in a single-family type care occupancy.
2) Emergency lighting to provide an average level of illumination of not less than 10 lx at floor or catwalk level shall be included in a service space referred to in Sentence 3.2.1.1.(8).
3) The minimum value of the illumination required by Sentences (1) and (2) shall be not less than 1 lx.
4) In addition to the requirements of Sentences (1) to (3), the installation of battery-operated emergency lighting in buildings or part thereof where treatment is provided shall conform to the appropriate requirements of CSA Z32, “Electrical Safety and Essential Electrical Systems in Health Care Facilities.”
Emergency Power for Lighting
1) An emergency power supply shall be
a) provided to maintain the emergency lighting required by this Subsection
from a power source such as batteries or generators that will continue to
3.2.7.2.
3.2.7.3.
3.2.7.4.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division B
3-107
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.2.7.5.
Division B
3.2.7.5.
3.2.7.6.
3.2.7.7.
3.2.7.8.
(See Note A-3.2.7.4.(1).)
2) If self-contained emergency lighting units are used, they shall conform to CSA C22.2 No. 141, “Emergency Lighting Equipment.”
Emergency Power Supply Installation
1) Except as required by Articles 3.2.7.6. and 3.2.7.7., an emergency electrical power supply system shall be installed in conformance with CSA C282, “Emergency Electrical Power Supply for Buildings.” (See Sentence 3.2.7.8.(1) for emergency electrical power supply for voice communication systems.)
Emergency Power for Treatment Occupancies
1) Except as required by Article 3.2.7.7., an emergency electrical power supply system for emergency equipment required by this Part for treatment occupancies shall be installed in conformance with CSA Z32, “Electrical Safety and Essential Electrical Systems in Health Care Facilities.” (See Note A-3.2.7.6.(1).)
Fuel Supply Shut-off Valves
1) If a liquid or gas fuel-fired engine or turbine for an emergency electric power supply is dependent on a fuel supply from outside the building, the fuel supply shall be provided with a suitably-identified separate shut-off valve outside the building.
Emergency Power for Fire Alarm Systems
1) Fire alarm systems, including those incorporating a voice communication system, shall be provided with an emergency power supply conforming to Sentences (2), (3) and (4).
2) The emergency power supply required by Sentence (1) shall be supplied from
a) a generator,
b) batteries, or
c) a combination thereof.
3) The emergency power supply required by Sentence (1) shall be capable of providing
a) supervisory power for not less than 24 h, and
b) immediately following that period, emergency power under full load for
not less than
i) 2hforabuildingwithinthescopeofSubsection3.2.6.,
ii) 1hforabuildingclassifiedasaGroupBmajoroccupancythat is not within the scope of Subsection 3.2.6.,
iii) 1 h for a building constructed in accordance with Article 3.2.2.50. or 3.2.2.58.,
iv) 5 min for a building not required to be equipped with an annunciator, and
v) 30 min for any other building.
(See Note A-3.2.7.8.(3).)
4) The emergency power supply required by Sentence (1) shall be designed so that, in the event of a failure of the normal power source, there is an immediate automatic transfer to emergency power with no loss of information.
3-108 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
b)
supply power in the event that the regular power supply to the building is interrupted, and
so designed and installed that upon failure of the regular power it will assume the electrical load automatically for a period of
i) 2hforabuildingwithinthescopeofSubsection3.2.6.,
ii) 1hforabuildingofGroupBmajoroccupancyclassification
that is not within the scope of Subsection 3.2.6.,
iii) 1 h for a building constructed in accordance with
Article 3.2.2.50. or 3.2.2.58., and
iv) 30minforabuildingofanyotheroccupancy.
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 3.2.7.10.
3.2.7.9.
Emergency Power for Building Services
1) An emergency power supply capable of operating under a full load for not less than 2 h shall be provided by an emergency generator for
a) every passenger elevator serving storeys above the first storey in a building that is more than 36 m high measured between grade and the floor level of the top storey and every passenger elevator for firefighters in conformance with Sentence (2),
b) water supply for firefighting in conformance with Article 3.2.5.7., if the supply is dependent on electrical power supplied to the building,
c) fans and other electrical equipment that are installed to maintain the air quality specified in Articles 3.2.6.2. and 3.3.3.6.,
d) fans required for venting by Article 3.2.6.6., and
e) fans required by Clause 3.2.8.4.(1)(c) and Article 3.2.8.7. in buildings within
the scope of Subsection 3.2.6.
(See Note A-3.2.7.9.(1).)
2) Except as permitted by Sentence (3), the emergency power supply for passenger elevators required by Clause (1)(a) shall be capable of operating all passenger elevators for firefighters plus one additional passenger elevator simultaneously.
3) Sentence (2) does not apply if the time to recall all passenger elevators under emergency power supply is not more than 5 min, each from its most remote storey to
a) the storey containing the entrance for firefighter access referred to in Articles 3.2.5.4. and 3.2.5.5., or
b) to a transfer lobby.
4) Where a sump pump is installed to drain the elevator pit provided for firefighters, an emergency power supply capable of providing not less than 1 h of power to the sump pump shall be installed and shall comply with the requirements in Clauses 3.2.6.5.(6)(a) and (b).
Protection of Electrical Conductors
3.2.7.10.
1)
to (d) a)
b) c)
d)
The protection of electrical and emergency conductors referred to in Clauses (a) shall conform to the requirements stated in Sentences (2) to (11):
electrical conductors located within buildings identified in Article 3.2.6.1. serving
i) fire alarms,
ii) emergency lighting, or
iii) emergency equipment within the scope of Articles 3.2.6.2. to 3.2.6.8.,
emergency conductors serving fire pumps required to be installed under Article 3.2.5.18.,
electrical conductors serving mechanical systems serving
i) areasofrefugeidentifiedinClause3.3.3.6.(1)(b),or
ii) containeduseareasidentifiedinClauses3.3.3.7.(4)(a)and(b),
and
electrical cables located in a building conforming to Article 3.2.2.50. or 3.2.2.58. and serving
i) fire alarm systems, or
ii) emergency lighting systems.
Except as otherwise required by Sentence (3) and permitted by this Article, electrical conductors that are used in conjunction with systems identified in Sentence (1) shall
a) conform to CAN/ULC-S139, “Fire Test for Evaluation of Integrity of Electrical Power, Data and Optical Fibre Cables,” including the hose stream application, to provide a circuit integrity rating of not less than 1 h (see Note A-3.2.7.10.(2)(a) and (3)(a)), or
b) be located in a service space that is separated from the remainder of the building by a fire separation that has a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h.
2)
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 3-109
  © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.2.8.1.
Division B
3.2.8. 3.2.8.1.
3) Electrical conductors identified in Clause (1)(c) shall
a) conform to CAN/ULC-S139, “Fire Test for Evaluation of Integrity of
Electrical Power, Data and Optical Fibre Cables,” including the hose stream application, to provide a circuit integrity rating of not less than 2 h (see Note A-3.2.7.10.(2)(a) and (3)(a)), or
b) be located in a service space that is separated from the remainder of the building by a fire separation that has a fire-resistance rating not less than 2 h.
4) The service spaces referred to in Clauses (2)(b) and (3)(b) shall not contain any combustible materials other than the conductors being protected.
5) Except as stated in Sentences (7) and (9), the electrical conductors referred to in Sentence (1) are those that extend from the source of emergency power to
a) the equipment served, or
b) the distribution equipment supplying power to the equipment served, if
both are in the same room (see Note A-3.2.7.10.(5)(b)).
6) If a fire alarm transponder or annunciator in one fire compartment is connected to a central processing unit or another transponder or annunciator located in a different fire compartment, the electrical conductors connecting them shall be protected in accordance with Sentence (2).
7) Fire alarm system branch circuits within a storey that connect transponders and individual devices need not conform to Sentence (2). (See Note A-3.2.7.10.(7).)
8) Except as permitted in Sentence (9), if a distribution panel supplies power to emergency lighting, the power supply conductors leading up to the distribution panel shall be protected in accordance with Sentence (2).
9) Conductors leading from a distribution panel referred to in Sentence (8) to emergency lighting units in the same storey need not conform to Sentence (2).
10) Distribution panels serving emergency lighting units located on other storeys shall be installed in a service room separated from the floor area by a fire separation having a fire-resistance rating of at least 1 h.
11) Conductors leading from a distribution panel to emergency lighting units located on other storeys shall be protected in accordance with Sentence (2) between the distribution panel and the floor area where the emergency lighting units are located.
Mezzanines and Openings through Floor Assemblies Application
1) Except as permitted by Article 3.2.8.2. and Sentence 3.3.4.2.(3), the portions of a floor area or a mezzanine that do not terminate at an exterior wall, a firewall or a vertical shaft shall
a) terminate at a vertical fire separation having a fire-resistance rating not less than that required for the floor assembly and extending from the floor assembly to the underside of the floor or roof assembly above, or
b) be protected in conformance with the requirements of Articles 3.2.8.3. to 3.2.8.8.
2) The penetration of a floor assembly by an exit or a vertical service space shall conform to the requirements of Sections 3.4., 3.5. and 3.6.
3) A floor area containing sleeping rooms in a building of Group B, Division 2 and 3 major occupancy shall not be constructed as part of an interconnected floor space.
4) In a building of Group C major occupancy, the public corridor shall not be in an interconnected floor space and shall not penetrate an interconnected floor space to reach an exit.
3-110 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
3.2.8.4.
3.2.8.2.
Exceptions to Special Protection
1) A mezzanine need not terminate at a vertical fire separation nor be protected in conformance with the requirements of Articles 3.2.8.3. to 3.2.8.8. provided the mezzanine
a) serves a Group A, Division 1 major occupancy,
b) serves a Group A, Division 3 major occupancy in a building not more than
2 storeys in building height, or
c) serves a Group A, C, D, E or F major occupancy and
i) is 500 m2 or less in area, and
ii) conforms to Sentence 3.2.1.1.(3) or (4).
2) Except for floors referred to in Sentence 3.1.10.3.(1) and Article 3.2.1.2., openings through a horizontal fire separation for vehicular ramps in a storage garage are not required to be protected with closures and need not conform to this Subsection.
3) If a closure in an opening in a fire separation would disrupt the nature of a manufacturing process, such as a continuous flow of material from storey to storey, the closure for the opening is permitted to be omitted provided precautions are taken to offset the resulting hazard. (See Note A-3.2.8.2.(3).)
4) An interconnected floor space in a Group B, Division 1 occupancy need not conform to the requirements of Articles 3.2.8.3. to 3.2.8.8. provided the interconnected floor space does not interconnect more than 2 adjacent storeys.
5) Except as permitted by Sentence (6), openings for stairways that do not serve as an exit, escalators and inclined moving walks need not conform to the requirements in Articles 3.2.8.3. to 3.2.8.8. provided
a) the opening for each escalator or walk does not exceed 10 m2,
b) the building is sprinklered throughout, and
c) if the major occupancy of the building is a Group A, Division 1, 2 or 3, Group D or Group E (see Note A-3.2.8.2.(6)(c)).
(See Note A-3.2.8.2.(5).)
6) An interconnected floor space need not conform to the requirements of Articles 3.2.8.3. to 3.2.8.8., provided
a) it consists of the first storey and the storey next above or below it, but not both,
b) it is sprinklered throughout or, where the building area is not more than
one half of the area permitted by Subsection 3.2.2., the openings through the floor are used only for stairways, escalators or moving walks (see Note A-3.2.8.2.(6)(b)), and
c) it contains only Group A, Division 1, 2 or 3, Group D, Group E, or Group F, Division 2 or 3 major occupancies (see Note A-3.2.8.2.(6)(c)).
(See Note A-3.2.8.2.(5).)
Sprinklers
1) A building containing an interconnected floor space shall be sprinklered throughout.
2) Buildings constructed in accordance with Articles 3.2.8.4. to 3.2.8.8. shall be of
noncombustible construction; a heavy timber construction shall be permitted if a combustible construction is permitted by Subsection 3.2.2.
Vestibules
1) An exit opening into an interconnected floor space shall be protected at each opening into the interconnected floor space by a vestibule
a) with doorways that are not less than 1.8 m apart,
b) that is separated from the remainder of the floor area by a fire separation that
is not required to have a fire-resistance rating (see Note A-3.1.8.1.(1)(b)), and
c) that is designed to limit the passage of smoke so that the exit stair shaft does not contain more than 1% by volume of contaminated air from the fire floor,
assuming an outdoor temperature equal to the January design temperature on a 2.5% basis determined in accordance with Subsection 1.1.3. (see
Note A-3.2.8.4.(1)(c)).
3.2.8.3.
3.2.8.4.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 3-111
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.2.8.5.
Division B
3.2.8.5.
2) An exit opening into an interconnected floor space shall conform to Sentence 3.4.3.2.(6).
3) If an elevator hoistway opens into an interconnected floor space and into storeys above the interconnected floor space, either the elevator doors opening into the interconnected floor space or the elevator doors opening into the storeys above the interconnected floor space shall be protected by vestibules conforming to Sentence (1).
Protected Floor Space
1) A protected floor space used to satisfy the requirements of Clause 3.4.3.2.(6)(b) shall
a) be separated from the interconnected floor space by a fire separation having a fire-resistance rating not less than that required for the floor assembly of the storey in which it is located,
b) have all openings in the vertical fire separation between a protected floor space and the adjacent interconnected floor space protected by vestibules conforming to Sentence 3.2.8.4.(1), and
c) be designed so that it is not necessary to enter the interconnected floor space to reach an exit.
Draft Stops
1) A draft stop shall be provided at each floor level within an interconnected floor space, immediately adjacent to and surrounding the opening, and shall be not less than 500 mm deep measured from ceiling level down to the underside of the draft stop.
Mechanical Exhaust System
1) A mechanical exhaust system shall be provided to remove air from an
interconnected floor space at a rate of 4 air changes per hour. (See Note A-3.2.8.7.(1).)
2) The mechanical exhaust system required by Sentence (1) shall be actuated by a switch located on the storey containing the entrance for firefighter access referred to in Articles 3.2.5.4. and 3.2.5.5. near the annunciator for the fire alarm system.
Combustible Content Limits
1) An interconnected floor space shall be designed so that the combustible contents, excluding interior finishes, in those parts of a floor area in which the ceiling is more than 8 m above the floor, are limited to not more than 16 g of combustible material for each cubic metre of volume of the interconnected floor space.
Integrated Fire Protection and Life Safety Systems Testing
1) Where fire protection and life safety systems and systems with fire protection and life safety functions are integrated with each other, they shall be tested as a whole in accordance with CAN/ULC-S1001, “Integrated Systems Testing of Fire Protection and Life Safety Systems,” to verify that they have been properly integrated. (See Note A-3.2.9.1.(1).)
3.2.8.6.
3.2.8.7.
3.2.8.8.
3.2.9. 3.2.9.1.
3-112 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 3.3.1.3.
Section 3.3. Safety within Floor Areas
(See Note A-3.3.)
3.3.1. 3.3.1.1.
All Floor Areas Separation of Suites
1) Except as permitted by Sentences (2) and (4),
a) each suite in other than business and personal services occupancies shall be
separated from adjoining suites by a fire separation having a fire-resistance
rating not less than 1 h, and
b) a treatment area, which includes operating, treatment or recovery rooms, in
an ambulatory clinic occupancy referred to in Article 3.1.2.7. shall be separated from the remainder of the floor area by a fire separation having a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h.
(See also Subsection 3.3.3. for care or detention occupancies, Article 3.3.4.2. for residential occupancies, and Article 3.1.8.7. for fire dampers.)
2) The fire-resistance rating of the fire separation required by Sentence (1) is permitted to be less than 1 h but not less than 45 min provided the fire-resistance rating required by Subsection 3.2.2. is permitted to be less than 1 h for
a) the floor assembly above the floor area, or
b) the floor assembly below the floor area, if there is no floor assembly above.
3) Occupancies that are served by public corridors conforming to Clause 3.3.1.4.(4)(b) in a building that is sprinklered throughout, are not required to be separated from one another by fire separations provided the occupancies are
a) suites of business and personal services occupancy,
b) fast food vending operations that do not provide seating for customers,
c) suites of mercantile occupancy, or
d) any combination of these occupancies.
4) Except as permitted by Section 3.9., in a building used as a self-service warehouse, classified as a medium-hazard industrial occupancy (Group F, Division 2) and entirely sprinklered, each storage room need not be separated from the remainder of the building by a fire separation.
Hazardous Substances, Equipment and Processes
1) Except as provided in Subsections 3.3.5. and 3.3.6., the storage, handling and use of hazardous substances shall be in conformance with
a) provincial or territorial regulations or municipal bylaws, or
b) in the absence of the regulations or bylaws referred to in Clause (a), the NFC.
(See Note A-3.3.1.2.(1).)
2) Systems for the ventilation of cooking equipment that is not within a dwelling unit and is used in processes producing grease-laden vapours shall be designed and installed in conformance with Articles 6.3.1.7. and 6.9.1.3. (See Note A-3.3.1.2.(2).)
3) A fuel-fired appliance shall not be installed in a corridor serving as an access to exit.
4) Cooking appliances shall not be installed in a corridor serving as an access to exit.
5) Ranges, cooktops and residential type ovens shall be
a) installed in accordance with Subsection 9.10.22., and
b) equipped with a hood in accordance with Sentence 6.3.1.7.(2).
Means of Egress
1) Access to exit within floor areas shall conform to Subsections 3.3.2. to 3.3.5., in
addition to the requirements of this Subsection.
2) If a podium, terrace, platform or contained open space is provided, egress requirements shall conform to the appropriate requirements of Sentence 3.3.1.5.(1) for rooms and suites. 3) Means of egress shall be provided from every roof which is intended for occupancy, and from every podium, terrace, platform or contained open space.
4) At least two separate means of egress shall be provided from a roof, used or intended for an occupant load more than 60, to stairs designed in conformance with the requirements regarding exit stairs stated in Section 3.4.
5) A rooftop enclosure shall be provided with an access to exit that leads to an exit
a) at the roof level, or
b) on the storey immediately below the roof.
6) A rooftop enclosure which is more than 200 m2 in area shall be provided with at least 2 means of egress.
7) Two points of egress shall be provided for a service space referred to in Sentence 3.2.1.1.(8) if
a) the area is more than 200 m2, or
b) the travel distance measured from any point in the service space to a point
of egress is more than 25 m.
8) Except as permitted by Sentences 3.3.4.4.(5) and (6), each suite in a floor area that contains more than one suite shall have
a) an exterior exit doorway, or
b) a doorway
i) into a public corridor, or
ii) to an exterior passageway.
9) Except as permitted by this Section and by Sentence 3.4.2.1.(2), at the point where a doorway referred to in Sentence (8) opens onto a public corridor or exterior passageway, it shall be possible to go in opposite directions to each of 2 separate exits.
10) Just one end of a public corridor in a care or residential occupancy is permitted to lead through a lobby provided the lobby
a) conforms to Clauses 3.4.4.2.(2)(a) to (d) and 3.4.4.2.(2)(f) and Subclauses 3.4.4.2.(2)(e)(i), (e)(ii)and (e)(iv),
b) is separated from the public corridor by a fire separation having the fire-resistance rating required for the most restrictive between the lobby, the public corridor and adjacent rooms.
(See Notes A-3.3.1.3.(10) and A-3.4.4.2.(2).)
Public Corridor Separations
1) Except as otherwise required by this Part or as permitted by Sentence (4), a public corridor shall
a) be separated from the remainder of the storey by a fire separation, and
b) not contain an occupancy.
2) Except as permitted by Sentence (3) and Clauses (4)(a) and (b), the fire separation between a public corridor and the remainder of the storey shall have a fire-resistance rating not less than 45 min.
3) If a storey is sprinklered throughout, no fire-resistance rating is required for a
fire separation between a public corridor and the remainder of the storey, provided the corridor does not serve a care, treatment or detention occupancy or a residential occupancy. (See Note A-3.1.8.1.(1)(b).)
4) Except for the purposes of Clause 3.4.2.3.(1)(a), no fire separation is required in a sprinklered floor area between a public corridor and
a) except as required by Sentences 3.3.3.5.(8) and 3.3.4.2.(1), and notwithstanding Sentence 3.4.2.4.(2), the remainder of a storey, provided the travel distance from any part of the floor area to an exit is not more than 45 m,
b) a room or a suite, provided the public corridor complies with Sentence 3.3.1.9.(6) and Clause 3.4.2.5.(1)(d), or
c) a space containing plumbing fixtures required by Subsection 3.7.2., provided the space and the public corridor are separated from the remainder of the storey by a fire separation having a fire-resistance rating not less than that required between the public corridor and the remainder of the storey.
3-114 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022
 Division B 3.3.1.5.
3.3.1.5.
5) Except as required in Sentence (6), residential type cooking equipment, such as ranges, cooking tops or ovens, is permitted to be installed in a room that opens on a public corridor if the floor area does not contain a Group C or Group B, Division 2 or 3, occupancy.
6) Where the floor area contains a Group C or Group B, Division 2 or 3, occupancy, the cooking equipment permitted in Sentence (5) shall be installed in a room separated from the remainder of the floor area by a fire separation having a fire-resistance rating
not less than 45 min.
Egress Doorways
1) Except for dwelling units, a minimum of 2 egress doorways located so that one doorway could provide egress from the room or suite as required by Article 3.3.1.3. if the other doorway becomes inaccessible to the occupants due to a fire which originates in the room or suite, shall be provided for every room and every suite
a) that is used for a high-hazard industrial occupancy and whose area is more than 15 m2,
b) intended for an occupant load more than 60,
c) in a floor area that is not sprinklered throughout, and
i) the area of a room or suite is more than the value in Table 3.3.1.5.-A, or
ii) thetraveldistancewithintheroomorsuitetothenearest egress doorway is more than the value in Table 3.3.1.5.-A, or
d) in a floor area that is sprinklered throughout and does not contain a high-hazard industrial occupancy and
i) thetraveldistancetoanegressdoorwayismorethan25m, or
ii) the area of the room or suite is more than the value in Table 3.3.1.5.-B.
2) Where 2 egress doorways are required by Sentence (1), they shall be placed at a distance from one another equal to or greater than one third of the maximum overall diagonal dimension of the area to be served, measured as the shortest distance that smoke would have to travel between the nearest required egress doors. Table 3.3.1.5.-A
Egress in Floor Area not Sprinklered Throughout Forming Part of Sentence 3.3.1.5.(1)
Occupancy of Room or Suite
Division 2 Division 3
Table 3.3.1.5.-A
Egress in Floor Area not Sprinklered Throughout Forming Part of Sentence 3.3.1.5.(1)
Maximum Area of Room or Suite, m2
150 100(1) 200 150 150 200
Maximum Distance to Egress Doorway, m
15 15(1)
25 15 10 15
Notes to Table 3.3.1.5.-A:
(1) See Article 3.3.4.4. for dwelling units.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division B
3-115
    © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022
 3.3.1.6.
Division B
Group A
Group B, Division 1 Group B, Division 2
sleeping rooms
other than sleeping rooms Group B, Division 3
sleeping rooms not in dwelling units individual dwelling units
other than sleeping rooms
Group C
Group D
Group E
Group F, Division 2 Group F, Division 3
Notes to Table 3.3.1.5.-B:
(1) See Article 3.3.4.4. for dwelling units.
3.3.1.6.
3.3.1.7.
Travel Distance
3-116 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Occupancy of Room or Suite
Maximum Area of Room or Suite, m2
200 100
100 200
100 150 200 150(1) 300 200 200 300
Table 3.3.1.5.-B
Egress in Floor Area Sprinklered Throughout Forming Part of Sentence 3.3.1.5.(1)
1) If more than one egress doorway is required from a room or suite referred to in Article 3.3.1.5., the travel distance within the room or suite to the nearest egress doorway shall not exceed the maximum travel distances specified in Clauses 3.4.2.5.(1)(a), (b), (c) and (f) for exits.
Protection on Floor Areas with a Barrier-Free Path of Travel
1) Every floor area above or below the first storey that is not sprinklered throughout and that has a required barrier-free path of travel shall
a) be served by a passenger elevator
i) conforming to Sentences 3.2.6.5.(4) to (6),
ii) protected against fire in conformance with Clauses 3.2.6.5.(3)(b) or (c), and
iii) in a building over 3 storeys in building height, protected against smoke movement so that the hoistway will not contain more than 1% by volume of contaminated air from a fire floor during a period of 2 h after the start of
a fire, assuming an outdoor temperature equal to the January design temperature on a 2.5% basis determined in conformance with Subsection 1.1.3.,
b) be divided into at least 2 zones by fire separations conforming to Sentences (2), (3) and 3.1.8.5.(6) so that (see Note A-3.3.1.7.(1)(b))
i) persons with physical disabilities can be accommodated in each zone, and
ii) thetraveldistancefromanypointinonezonetoadoorway leading to another zone shall be not more than the value for travel distance permitted by Sentence 3.4.2.5.(1) for the occupancy classification of the zone,
c) in the case of residential occupancies, be provided with balconies conforming to Sentence (4), except on the storey containing the barrier-free entrance required by Article 3.8.2.2.,
   © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
3.3.1.9.
3.3.1.8.
3.3.1.9.
have an exterior exit at ground level, or
have a ramp leading to ground level. (See Note A-3.3.1.7.(1).)
2) Except as permitted by Sentence (3), the fire separations referred to in Clause (1)(b) shall have a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h.
3) The fire-resistance rating of the fire separations referred to in Clause (1)(b) is permitted to be less than 1 h but not less than 45 min provided the fire-resistance rating required by Subsection 3.2.2. is permitted to be less than 1 h for
a) the floor assembly above the floor area, or
b) the floor assembly below the floor area, if there is no floor assembly above.
4) A balcony required by Clause (1)(c) shall
a) have direct barrier-free access from the suite or floor area
b) be not less than 1.5 m deep from the outside face of the exterior wall to
the inside edge of the balcony, and
c) provide not less than 1.5 m2 of balcony space for each non-ambulatory
occupant and 0.5 m2 for each ambulatory occupant.
Headroom Clearance
1) Except within the floor area of a storage garage, the minimum headroom clearance in every access to exit shall conform to the requirements of Article 3.4.3.4. for exits.
(See also Sentence 3.3.5.4.(5).)
Corridors
1) Subject to Sentence 3.3.3.3.(2), the minimum width of a public corridor shall
be 1 100 mm.
2) Except as required by Sentence 3.3.3.3.(3), the minimum unobstructed width of a corridor used by the public or a corridor serving classrooms or patients’ or residents’ sleeping rooms shall be 1 100 mm.
3) Except as permitted by Sentence (4), obstructions located within 1 980 mm of the floor shall not project more than 100 mm horizontally into an exit passageway,
a public corridor, a corridor used by the public or a corridor serving classrooms or patients’ or residents’ sleeping rooms in a manner that would create a hazard for a person with a visual disability traveling adjacent to the walls.
4) The horizontal projection of an obstruction referred to in Sentence (3) is permitted to be more than 100 mm provided the clearance between the obstruction and the floor is less than 680 mm. (See Note A-3.3.1.9.(4).)
5) Where a corridor contains an occupancy authorized under the NBC, the occupancy is permitted to reduce the total width of the corridor, but not less than the required minimum unobstructed width.
6) If a public corridor conforming to Clause 3.4.2.5.(1)(d) contains an occupancy,
a) the occupancy shall be located so that for pedestrian travel there is an
unobstructed width not less than 3 m at all times adjacent and parallel to all
rooms and suites that front onto the public corridor, and
b) the combined area of all occupancies in the public corridor shall be not more
than 15% of the area of the public corridor.
7) Except for a dead-end corridor that is entirely within a suite or as permitted by Sentences 3.3.3.3.(1) and 3.3.4.4.(6), a dead-end corridor is permitted provided it is not more than 6 m long.
8) A dead-end corridor up to 9 m long is permitted provided
a) it serves an elevator hall or service rooms,
b) the building is of noncombustible construction, and
c) the building is sprinklered.
d) e)
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division B
3-117
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.3.1.10.
Division B
3.3.1.10.
3.3.1.11.
Aisles
1) Except as otherwise stated in this Section, aisles shall be provided in
conformance with the NFC.
Door Swing
1) Except as permitted by Sentence (5) and Article 3.3.1.12., a door that opens into a corridor or other facility providing access to exit from a suite or room not located within a suite shall swing on a vertical axis.
2) Except as permitted by Article 3.3.1.12., a door that opens into a corridor or other facility providing access to exit from a room or suite that is used or intended for an occupant load more than 60 or for a high-hazard industrial occupancy shall swing in the direction of travel to the exit.
3) Every door that divides a corridor that is not wholly contained within a suite shall swing on a vertical axis in the direction of travel to the exit.
4) If a pair of doors is installed in a corridor that provides access to exit in both directions, the doors shall swing in opposite directions, with the door on the right hand side swinging in the direction of travel to the exit.
5) Doors that serve storage suites not more than 28 m2 in area in warehousing buildings need not conform to Sentence (1).
Sliding Doors
1) Except as permitted by Sentences (2) and 3.3.1.11.(5), a sliding door provided in the locations described in Article 3.3.1.11. shall
a) be designed and installed to swing on the vertical axis in the direction of travel to the exit when pressure is applied, and
b) be identified as a swinging door by means of a label or decal affixed to it.
2) In a Group B, Division 1 occupancy, or in an impeded egress zone in other occupancies, sliding doors used in an access to exit need not conform to Sentence (1) and Article 3.3.1.11.
3) Movable partitions used to separate a public corridor from an adjacent business and personal services occupancy or a mercantile occupancy need not conform to Sentence (1) and Sentences 3.3.1.11.(1) and (2), provided the partitions are not located in the only means of egress. (See Note A-3.3.1.12.(3).)
Doors and Door Hardware
1) Except as required by Article 3.3.3.4., a door that opens into or is located within a public corridor or other facility that provides access to exit from a suite shall
a) provide a clear opening of not less than 800 mm if there is only one door leaf,
b) in a doorway with multiple leaves, have the active leaf providing a clear
opening of not less than 800 mm,
c) not open onto a step, and
d) have a threshold not more than 13 mm higher than the surrounding finished floor surface, except where it
i) isusedtoconfinethespillageofflammableliquidswithina service room or within a room in an industrial occupancy, or
ii) providesaccesstoanexteriorbalcony,unlessthebalconyis required by Clause 3.3.1.7.(1)(c).
2) Except as provided in Sentences (6) and (7), a door in an access to exit shall be readily openable in travelling to an exit without requiring keys, special devices or specialized knowledge of the door-opening mechanism.
3) Except as permitted by Sentence (4), door release hardware shall comply with Clause 3.8.3.8.(1)(b) and the door shall be openable with not more than one releasing operation. (See also Sentence 3.8.3.6.(4).)
4) An egress door from an individual dwelling unit or from a suite of residential occupancy is permitted to be provided with additional devices that require a releasing
3.3.1.12.
3.3.1.13.
3-118 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 3.3.1.16.
3.3.1.14.
operation additional to the main door release hardware, provided the devices are readily operable from the inside without the use of keys, special devices or specialized knowledge. (See Note A-3.3.1.13.(4).)
5) Door release hardware shall be installed not more than 1 200 mm above the finished floor.
6) An egress door in an access to exit serving a contained use area or an impeded egress zone is permitted to be equipped with locking devices, provided they can be released either locally or remotely in conformance with Sentence (8) or (9). (See Note A-3.3.1.13.(6).)
7) A door in an access to exit is permitted to be equipped with an electromagnetic lock conforming to Sentence 3.4.6.16.(4) or (5).
8) Local locking devices permitted by Sentence (6) shall be operable by a key from both sides of the door.
9) Controls for the remote release of door locking devices permitted by Sentence (6) shall be located in an area readily available to security personnel.
10) Locking devices permitted by Sentence (6) that are electrically operated shall be
a) designed to operate on emergency power, and
b) capable of manual release by security personnel.
Ramps and Stairways
1) Except as permitted by Sentences (2) and (3), Article 3.3.4.7. and Subsection 3.3.2., ramps and stairways that do not serve as exits shall conform to the requirements for exit ramps and stairways stated in Sentence 3.4.3.2.(8) and Articles 3.4.3.4., and 3.4.6.1. to 3.4.6.9.
2) Ramps and stairways that serve service rooms, service spaces or industrial occupancies need not comply with Sentence (1), provided
a) they are intended only for occasional use for servicing equipment and machinery, and
b) they do not serve as exits.
3) An interior stairway of less than 3 risers is permitted provided
a) the stair is not less than 900 mm wide,
b) the stair has a covering that contrasts with the landings covering or is
permanently lit when the lighting is filtered and occupants are on the
premises, and
c) a handrail is installed on each side.
Exterior Passageways
1) An exterior passageway leading to a required exit shall conform to the
requirements of Section 3.4. for exterior exit passageways. Tapered Treads in a Curved Flight
1) Flights of stairs shall consist solely of
a) straight flights, or
b) curved flights complying with Sentence (2).
2) Tapered treads in a curved flight that is not required as an exit shall have
a) a minimum run of 150 mm,
b) a run not less than 280 mm when measured at a point 300 mm from the
centre line of the handrail at the narrow end of the tread, and
c) a riser conforming to Sentence 3.4.6.8.(2).
3) Tapered treads shall have a consistent angle and uniform run and rise dimensions in accordance with the construction tolerances stipulated in Article 3.4.6.8. when measured at a point 300 mm from the centre line of the handrail at the narrow end of the tread.
3.3.1.15.
3.3.1.16.
4) All tapered treads within a flight shall turn in the same direction.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 3-119
   © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.3.1.17.
Division B
3.3.1.17.
Capacity of Access to Exits
(See Article 3.3.1.9. for minimum widths of corridors.)
1) The capacity of an access to exit shall be based on the occupant load of the portion of the floor area served.
2) In an access to exit the required width of ramps with a slope not more than 1 in 8, doorways, and corridors shall be based on not less than 6.1 mm per person.
3) In an access to exit the required width of a ramp with a slope more than 1 in 8 shall be based on not less than 9.2 mm per person.
4) In an access to exit from a floor area used or intended to be used for patients in a Group B, Division 2 occupancy or residents in a Group B, Division 3 occupancy, the required width of corridors, doorways, and ramps shall be based on not less than 18.4 mm per person.
5) The capacity of stairs in an access to exit shall conform to the requirements for stairs in Sentences 3.4.3.2.(1) to (3).
6) In a building that is not sprinklered throughout in accordance with
Sentence 3.2.5.12.(1), an access to exit that is part of the principal entrance serving a dance hall or a licensed beverage establishment with an occupant load more than 250 shall provide at least one half of the required exit width.
Guards
1) Except as provided in Sentence (5) and Article 3.3.2.9., a guard not less than 1 070 mm high shall be provided
a) around any roof to which access is provided for purposes other than maintenance,
b) at openings into smoke shafts referred to in Subsection 3.2.6. that are less than 1 070 mm above the floor, and
c) at each raised floor, mezzanine, balcony, gallery, interior or exterior vehicular ramp, and at other locations where (see Note A-9.8.8.1.)
i) the difference in elevation is more than 600 mm between the walking surface and the adjacent surface, or
ii) theadjacentsurfacewithin1.2mofthewalkingsurfacehas a slope of more than 1 in 2.
2) Except as provided in Sentences (3) and 3.3.2.9.(4) and Articles 3.3.4.7. and 3.3.5.10., openings through guards shall be of a size that prevents the passage of a spherical object whose diameter is more than 100 mm.
3) Openings through guards other than those required by Sentence (1) that serve occupancies other than industrial occupancies shall be of a size that
a) prevents the passage of a spherical object whose diameter is 100 mm, or
b) permits the passage of a spherical object whose diameter is 200 mm.
(See Note A-9.8.8.5.(3).)
4) Except for guards conforming to Article 3.3.5.10., guards that protect a level located more than one storey or 4.2 m above the adjacent level shall be designed so that no member, attachment or opening located between 140 mm and 900 mm above the level protected by the guard facilitates climbing. (See Note A-9.8.8.6.(1).)
5) Sentence (1) does not apply
a) to the front edges of stages,
b) to loading docks, or
c) where access is provided for maintenance purposes only.
Transparent Doors and Panels
1) Except as permitted by Sentence (5), a glass or transparent door shall be designed and constructed so that the existence and position of the door is readily apparent, by attaching visually contrasting hardware, bars or other permanent fixtures to it.
3.3.1.18.
3.3.1.19.
3-120 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
   © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 3.3.1.21.
3.3.1.20.
2) The visibility of fully glazed transparent doors, sidelights and panels shall be enhanced through the inclusion of mullions, markings or other elements that
a) are visually contrasting,
b) are at least 50 mm high,
c) extend the full width of the door, sidelight or panel, and
d) are located between 1 350 mm and 1 500 mm above the floor.
3) A glass door shall be constructed of
a) laminated or tempered safety glass conforming to CAN/CGSB-12.1-M,
“Tempered or Laminated Safety Glass,” or
b) wired glass conforming to CAN/CGSB-12.11-M, “Wired Safety Glass.”
4) Except as permitted by Sentence (5), transparent panels used in an access to exit that, because of their physical configuration or design, could be mistaken as a means of egress shall be made inaccessible by barriers or railings.
5) Sliding glass partitions that separate a public corridor from an adjacent occupancy and that are open during normal working hours need not conform to Sentences (1) and (4), provided the partitions are suitably marked in conformance with Sentence (2) to indicate their existence and position.
6) Where vision glass is provided in doors or transparent sidelights, the lowest edge of the glass shall be no higher than 900 mm above floor level.
7) Glass in doors and in sidelights that could be mistaken for doors, within or at the entrances to dwelling units and in public areas, shall conform to the requirements of Article 9.6.1.4.
8) A window in a public area that extends to less than 1 000 mm above the floor and is located above the second storey in a building of residential occupancy, shall be protected by a barrier or railing to not less than 1 070 mm above the floor, or the window shall be non-openable and designed to withstand the lateral design loads for balcony guards required by Article 4.1.5.14.
Exhaust Ventilation and Explosion Venting
1) Except as provided in Sentences (2), Sentence 3.1.8.8.(3) and 3.6.3.1.(6), an exhaust ventilation system designed in conformance with the appropriate requirements of Part 6 shall be provided in a building or part of a building in which dust, fumes, gases, vapour or other impurities or contaminants have the potential to create a fire or explosion hazard. (See also Article 4.2.4.13.)
2) Where a fire separation required to have a fire-resistance rating is penetrated by a ventilation system required by Sentence (1) for power-ventilated enclosures in laboratories, the ducts shall be
a) continuously enclosed from the first penetrated fire separation to any subsequent fire separations or concealed spaces and all the way through to the outdoors so that the highest fire-resistance rating of all the penetrated fire separations is maintained, and
b) exempted from the requirement to be equipped with a fire damper, smoke damper and fire/smoke damper as stated in Article 3.1.8.7.
3) Explosion relief devices, vents or other protective measures conforming to Subsection 6.3.1. and Article 6.9.1.2. shall be provided for a space in which substances or conditions that have the potential to create an explosion hazard are present as a result of the principal use of a building.
Janitors’ Rooms
1) Except as permitted by Sentences (2) and (3), a room or space within a floor area for the storage of janitorial supplies shall be separated from the remainder of the building by a fire separation having a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h.
3.3.1.21.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 3-121
  © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.3.1.22.
Division B
3.3.1.22.
2) The fire-resistance rating of the fire separation required by Sentence (1) is permitted to be less than 1 h but not less than 45 min provided the fire-resistance rating required by Subsection 3.2.2. is permitted to be less than 1 h for
a) the floor assembly above the floor area, or
b) the floor assembly below the floor area, if there is no floor assembly above.
3) The fire separation required by Sentence (1) is not required to have a fire-resistance rating if the floor area in which the room or space is located is sprinklered throughout.
Common Laundry Rooms
1) Except as permitted by Sentences (2) and (3), in a building of residential occupancy, a laundry room in a floor area that is not within a dwelling unit shall be separated from the remainder of the building by a fire separation having a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h.
2) The fire-resistance rating of the fire separation required by Sentence (1) is permitted to be less than 1 h but not less than 45 min provided the fire-resistance rating required by Subsection 3.2.2. is permitted to be less than 1 h for
a) the floor assembly above the floor area, or
b) the floor assembly below the floor area, if there is no floor assembly above.
3) The fire separation required by Sentence (1) is not required to have a fire-resistance rating if the floor area in which the laundry room is located is sprinklered throughout.
Obstructions
1) No obstruction shall be permitted in any occupancy that would restrict the width of a normal means of egress from any part of a floor area to less than 750 mm unless an alternative means of egress is provided adjacent to, accessible from, and plainly visible from the obstructed means of egress. (See Note A-3.3.1.23.(1).)
Signs in Service Spaces
1) Illuminated signs conforming to Sentences 3.4.5.1.(2) and (6) shall be provided to indicate the direction to egress points in a service space referred to in Sentence 3.2.1.1.(8).
Welding and Cutting
1) Except as provided in Sentence (2), welding and cutting operations shall be carried out in a room
a) separated from the remainder of the building by a fire separation having a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h, or
b) protected by an automatic fire extinguishing system.
2) Sentence (1) shall not apply to industrial occupancies where the welding and cutting operations do not present a fire or explosion hazard to adjacent areas.
Assembly Occupancy Scope
1) This Subsection applies to assembly occupancies and to outdoor places of assembly.
2) Except as required in Sentence (3), provisions 12.2.3.2, 12.2.3.3, 12.2.5.4, 12.2.5.5, 12.2.5.6, 12.2.11.1, 12.4.1 and 12.4.2 of Chapter 12 of NFPA 101, “Life Safety Code,” are permitted to be used in lieu of Articles 3.3.2.4., 3.3.2.5., 3.3.2.9., 3.3.2.11. and 3.3.2.12. (See Note A-3.3.2.1.(2).)
3) The minimum clear width of aisle accessways between rows of seats shall be calculated according to provisions 12.2.5.5.2, 12.2.5.5.4.1 and 12.2.5.5.5.1 of Chapter 12 of NFPA 101, “Life Safety Code,” except that in no case shall the width be less than 400 mm.
3.3.1.23.
3.3.1.24.
3.3.1.25.
3.3.2. 3.3.2.1.
3-122 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 3.3.2.5.
3.3.2.2.
Fire Separations
1) Except as permitted by Sentence (2), the seating area of a Group A, Division 1 occupancy shall be separated from adjacent occupancies in the floor area by a fire separation having a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h if the occupant load in the seating area exceeds 200.
2) The fire-resistance rating of the fire separation required by Sentence (1) is permitted to be less than 1 h but not less than 45 min provided the fire-resistance rating required by Subsection 3.2.2. is permitted to be less than 1 h for
a) the floor assembly above the floor area, or
b) the floor assembly below the floor area, if there is no floor assembly above.
3) If usable space exists under tiers of seats in arena-type buildings, a fire separation with a fire-resistance rating not less than 45 min shall be provided between the space and the seats or the space shall be sprinklered.
Non-fixed Seating
1) Non-fixed seating shall conform to the NFC.
Fixed Seats
1) Except for the requirements of Article 3.3.2.8. for bench-type seats and except as required or permitted by Sentence (2) and Articles 3.3.2.11. and 3.3.2.12., fixed seats
in places of assembly shall be
a) attached or secured to the floor, platform or platform riser,
b) provided with arms and back, and
c) arranged in rows having an unobstructed passage not less than 400 mm wide measured horizontally between plumb lines from the backs of the seats in one row and the edges of the furthest forward projection of the seats in the next row in the unoccupied position.
2) For fixed seats with backs and with folding tablet arms, the value of 400 mm required by Clause (1)(c) shall be measured when the tablet arms are in the use position, but is permitted to be measured in the stored position provided
a) there are not more than 7 seats between any seat and the nearest aisle,
b) the seats are located in a lecture hall or an auditorium used for instructional
purposes, and
c) the tablet arm, when raised manually to a vertical position, falls by the force
of gravity to the stored position.
(See Note A-3.3.2.4.(2).)
3) Except as permitted by Sentences (4) and (5), aisles shall be located so that there are not more than 7 seats with backs or 20 seats without backs between any seat and the nearest aisle.
4) The requirements of Sentence (3) do not apply if
a) egress doorways are provided to serve both ends of rows of seats,
b) each doorway referred to in Clause (a) serves not more than 3 rows of seats,
and
c) each row contains not more than 100 seats.
5) The requirements of Sentence (3) for fixed seats with backs do not apply if
a) each row has an unobstructed passage with the minimum width of 400 mm
required by Clause (1)(c) plus 6.1 mm for each additional seat above 16
seats in the row, and
b) the travel distance is not more than 45 m measured along the path of travel
from any seat to an exit or to an egress doorway.
Aisles
1) Except as required by Articles 3.3.2.11. and 3.3.2.12., aisles leading to exits shall be provided in conformance with Sentences (2) to (17) in places of assembly which contain fixed seats.
3.3.2.3.
3.3.2.4.
3.3.2.5.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 3-123
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.3.2.6.
Division B
3.3.2.6.
2) The minimum clear width of aisles shall be not less than 1 100 mm, except that the width is permitted to be reduced to not less than
a) 750 mm if serving not more than 60 seats, and
b) 900 mm if serving seats on one side only.
3) Except in the case of bleachers, the minimum clear width of aisles referred to in Sentence (2) shall be measured at the point farthest from an exit, cross aisle or foyer and shall be increased by 25 mm for each metre of distance toward the exit, cross aisle or foyer.
4) Aisles shall terminate in a cross aisle, foyer or exit, and the width of the cross aisle, foyer or exit shall be not less than the required width of the widest aisle plus 50% of the total required width of the remaining aisles that it serves.
5) Dead-end aisles shall be not more than 6 m long.
6) The length of travel to an exit door by any aisle shall be not more than 45 m.
7) Side aisles shall be not less than 1 100 mm wide if seating is provided in
conformance with Sentence 3.3.2.4.(4).
8) An aisle that has a slope not more than 1 in 8 shall not be stepped.
9) An aisle that slopes more than 1 in 8 shall be stepped.
10) The passageway between rows of seats served by a stepped aisle shall be level
at right angles to the line of travel.
11) The riser of a step in an aisle shall be
a) not less than 110 mm high, and
b) not more than 200 mm high.
12) Variations are permitted in riser height provided
a) the height of adjacent risers does not vary by more than 6 mm, and
b) the width of a tread or a platform in the direction of travel is not less than
430 mm.
13) Steps in an aisle shall
a) have a run not less than 230 mm exclusive of nosings,
b) have a tread width not less than 250 mm,
c) extend to the adjacent rows of seats in a manner that will not create a hazard
from tripping, and
d) have a finish on the treads conforming to Sentence 3.4.6.1.(1).
14) The location of every riser in an aisle shall be made apparent from both directions of travel by strategically placed lighting or contrasting marking stripes.
15) A platform in an aisle shall be level, except that a slope not more than 1 in 50 is permitted for a platform that is not less than 430 mm wide in the direction of exit travel.
16) If a step is used at the entry to a row of seats from a stepped aisle, an unobstructed platform not less than 800 mm square shall be provided adjacent to the aisle.
17) The finish of the surface of a platform in or adjacent to a stepped aisle shall conform to Sentence 3.4.6.1.(1).
Corridors
1) Except as permitted by Sentences (2) to (4), a corridor used by the public in an assembly occupancy as an access to exit shall be separated from the remainder of the floor area by a fire separation having a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h.
2) The fire-resistance rating of the fire separation required by Sentence (1) is permitted to be less than 1 h but not less than 45 min provided the fire-resistance rating required by Subsection 3.2.2. is permitted to be less than 1 h for
a) the floor assembly above the floor area, or
b) the floor assembly below the floor area, if there is no floor assembly above.
3) The fire-resistance rating required by Sentence (1) is permitted to be waived if the floor area in which the corridor is located is sprinklered throughout.
3-124 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 3.3.2.10.
3.3.2.7.
3.3.2.8.
4) The requirement for a fire separation stated in Sentence (1) is permitted to be waived if the distance from any point in the floor area to an exit measured along the path of travel to the exit does not exceed the travel distance permitted by Article 3.4.2.5.
Doors
1) A door equipped with a latching mechanism in an access to exit from a room or suite of assembly occupancy containing an occupant load more than 100 shall be equipped with a device that will release the latch and allow the door to swing wide open when a force not more than that specified in Sentence 3.8.3.6.(8) is applied to the device in the direction of travel to the exit.
Fixed Bench-Type Seats without Arms
1) If fixed bench-type seats without arms are provided, the seat width per person
shall be assumed to be 450 mm.
2) The centre-to-centre spacing between rows of bench-type seats shall be not less than 760 mm if back rests are provided, and not less than 550 mm if back rests are not provided.
3) A clear space of not less than 300 mm shall be provided between the back of each seat and the front of the seat immediately behind it.
Guards
1) Except as required by Sentences (2) to (4) for bleachers, guards shall be installed in outdoor and indoor places of assembly with fixed seats so that
a) at the fascia of every box, balcony or gallery where seating spaces extend to the edge, the height of guards is not less than
i) 760mminfrontofthespaces,and
ii) 920mmiflocatedattheendofaislesoratthefootofsteps,
b) the height of guards along every cross aisle other than those adjacent to the fascia of every box, balcony or gallery is not less than 660 mm, except that guards need not be provided if the backs of the seats are not less than 600 mm above the floor of the aisle, and
c) where the seating spaces are arranged in successive tiers and the height of rise between platforms is more than 450 mm, the height of guards is not less than 660 mm along these spaces at the edge of the platform.
2) The backs and ends of bleachers more than 1 200 mm above the ground or floor that are not adjacent to a wall shall be protected with a guard
a) not less than 1 070 mm high above an adjacent aisle surface or foot rest, and
b) not less than 920 mm high above the centre of an adjacent seat board.
3) If the front of a bleacher is more than 600 mm above the ground or floor, it shall be protected with a guard not less than 840 mm high above the front foot rest.
4) The size of any opening in a guard required by Sentences (2) and (3) shall not allow the passage of a sphere whose diameter is more than 300 mm.
Handrails in Aisles with Steps
(See Note A-3.3.2.10.)
1) Handrails shall be provided in aisles with steps in conformance with Table 3.3.2.10.
3.3.2.9.
3.3.2.10.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division B
3-125
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.3.2.11.
Division B
Aisle Width
Less than 1 100 mm
Aisle Serving Seating on One Side
Aisle Serving Seating on Both Sides
3.3.2.11.
Outdoor Places of Assembly
1) A Group A, Division 4 occupancy and each tier or balcony that has a capacity of more than
a) 1 000 persons shall have not less than 3 separate exits, or
b) 4 000 persons shall have not less than 4 separate exits.
2) In a Group A, Division 4 occupancy, every seat shall be located so that the travel distance is not more than 45 m measured along the path of travel from the seat to
a) the ground,
b) an exit,
c) an opening to a passageway leading from the seating area, or
d) a portal, a vomitory or any other opening through the seating deck structure.
3) Exits from outdoor stadia or grandstands shall be located not more than 25 m apart.
4) The capacity of a means of egress for a Group A, Division 4 occupancy shall conform to the requirements of Sentence 3.4.3.2.(3).
5) Aisles in a Group A, Division 4 occupancy shall
a) be located so that there are not more than 20 seats between any seat and
the nearest aisle, and
b) be not less than 1 200 mm wide, except that an aisle serving less than
60 persons is permitted to be 750 mm wide. Table 3.3.2.10.
Types and Location of Handrails in Aisles with Steps Forming Part of Sentence 3.3.2.10.(1)
a continuous handrail located on the side of the aisle opposite the seats that conforms to Sentences 3.4.6.5.(5) to (8), (11), (13) and (14)
a handrail located on one side at the end of each row of seats that conforms to Sentences 3.4.6.5.(5) to (8), (11), (13) and (14)
Handrail Requirements1 100 mm or morea centre-line handrail that conforms to Sentence (2)
or
a continuous handrail located on the side of the aisle opposite the seats that conforms to Sentences 3.4.6.5.(5) to (8), (11), (13) and (14), plus a handrail located
at the end of each row of seats that conforms to Sentences 3.4.6.5.(5) to (8), (11), (13) and (14)a centre line handrail that conforms to Sentence (2)2)
a) b)
c) d)
Handrails installed along aisle centre lines as required by Table 3.3.2.10. shall comply with Sentences 3.4.6.5.(5) to (7) and (14),
have gaps not less than 560 mm and not more than 915 mm wide, measured horizontally, at intervals not exceeding five rows,
comply with Sentence 3.4.6.5.(11) at terminations and required gaps, and have an intermediate rail located 305 mm below the principal handrail. Bleachers
1) Steps provided in aisles of bleachers of the telescopic type shall
a) have risers not more than 250 mm high, and
b) have treads with a run not less than 280 mm.
2) If the vertical distance between seating platforms in bleachers is more than 280 mm, an intermediate step shall be provided the full width of the aisle and proportioned to provide 2 equal risers between platforms.
3) If the vertical distance between seating platforms in bleachers is more than 450 mm, 2 intermediate steps shall be provided the full width of the aisle so that there are 3 equal risers between platforms.
3.3.2.12.
3-126 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
2)
a) b)
c) d)
Handrails installed along aisle centre lines as required by Table 3.3.2.10. shall comply with Sentences 3.4.6.5.(5) to (7) and (14),
have gaps not less than 560 mm and not more than 915 mm wide, measured horizontally, at intervals not exceeding five rows,
comply with Sentence 3.4.6.5.(11) at terminations and required gaps, and have an intermediate rail located 305 mm below the principal handrail.
Table 3.3.2.10.
Types and Location of Handrails in Aisles with Steps Forming Part of Sentence 3.3.2.10.(1)
a continuous handrail located on the side of the aisle opposite the seats that conforms to Sentences 3.4.6.5.(5) to (8), (11), (13) and (14)
a handrail located on one side at the end of each row of seats that conforms to Sentences 3.4.6.5.(5) to (8), (11), (13) and (14)
Handrail Requirements
    1 100 mm or morea centre-line handrail that conforms to Sentence (2)
or
a continuous handrail located on the side of the aisle opposite the seats that conforms to Sentences 3.4.6.5.(5) to (8), (11), (13) and (14), plus a handrail located
at the end of each row of seats that conforms to Sentences 3.4.6.5.(5) to (8), (11), (13) and (14)a centre line handrail that conforms to Sentence (2)© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022
 Division B 3.3.2.14.
3.3.2.13.
4) If the passageway between rows of seats is not a closed deck, footboards shall be provided so that
a) the total width of the footboards shall be not less than three quarters of the centre-to-centre spacing between rows of seats, and
b) the spacing between footboard members shall be not more than 25 mm.
5) Openings above footboards and below the seats in rows of bleacher seats shall be provided with intermediate construction so that there is no opening that would permit the passage of a sphere of more than 100 mm in diameter.
Libraries
1) Except as permitted by Sentence (2), a library book storage room that is not normally accessible to the public shall be separated from the remainder of the building by a fire separation with a fire-resistance rating not less than 2 h if it
a) is more than 250 m2 in area, or
b) contains book stacks that
i) are more than 10 m high, or
ii) penetratemorethanonefloorassembly.
2) The fire separation required by Sentence (1) is not required if the book storage room is sprinklered.
3) Open book shelves are permitted above and below a mezzanine floor in a library building provided the height of the shelves is not more than 2.1 m but not more than 75% of the floor-to-ceiling height of the space above or below the mezzanine floor assembly.
Stages for Theatrical Performances
1) A stage for theatrical performances and ancillary spaces, including workshops,
dressing rooms and storage areas, shall be sprinklered.
2) A fire separation with a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h shall be provided between a stage for theatrical performances and ancillary spaces, including workshops, dressing rooms and storage areas.
3) Except as permitted by Sentence (6), a stage for theatrical performances and ancillary spaces, including workshops, dressing rooms and storage areas, shall be separated from the seating area by a fire separation having a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h, except for a proscenium opening protected with
a) a sprinkler deluge system conforming to the requirements of NFPA 13, “Installation of Sprinkler Systems,”
b) an unframed fire curtain if the opening is not more than 20 m wide, or
c) a semi-rigid fire curtain if the opening is more than 20 m wide.
4) A fire curtain required by Sentence (3) shall be of a type acceptable to the authority having jurisdiction and designed to close
a) automatically upon the actuation of the sprinkler system,
b) automatically upon actuation of the fire alarm system, and
c) manually by remote control devices located at the curtain control panel and at each side of the stage.
5) At least 2 vents for the purpose of venting fire and smoke to the outside of a building shall be provided above a stage designed for theatrical performances and shall
a) have an aggregate area not less than one eighth of the area of the stage behind the proscenium opening, and
b) be arranged to open automatically upon actuation of the sprinkler system.
6) The fire separation referred to in Sentence (3) is not required between a stage and a seating area in a building that is sprinklered throughout, provided a sprinkler deluge system is installed at the boundary between the stage and the seating area.
3.3.2.14.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 3-127
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.3.2.15.
Division B
3.3.2.15. 3.3.2.16.
3.3.3. 3.3.3.1.
3.3.3.2.
3.3.3.3.
Deleted Storage Rooms
1) Where storage rooms are required by Part 4 of Division B of the NFC for the storage of flammable liquids or combustible liquids in assembly occupancies, such rooms shall not be located above or below the first storey.
Care, Treatment or Detention Occupancies Application
1) This Subsection applies to care, treatment, ambulatory clinic occupancies referred to in Article 3.1.2.7. and detention occupancies. (See Note A-3.3.3.1.(1).)
Separations between Care, Treatment or Detention Occupancies and Repair Garages
1) The fire separation required by Sentence 3.3.5.5.(1) between a care, treatment or detention occupancy and a repair garage shall have no openings.
Corridors
1) Except as provided in Sentence (2), a corridor used by the public or serving
patients’ or residents’ sleeping rooms shall have no dead-end portion.
2) Public corridors are permitted to have dead-portions where
a) the area served by the dead-end portion has a second and separate means
of egress,
b) the dead-end portion of a public corridor serving dwelling units does not
exceed 6 m,
c) the dead-end portion of a corridor used by the public or a corridor serving
patients' or residents’ sleeping rooms does not exceed 1 m, or
d) the corridor meets the requirements in Sentence 3.3.1.9.(8).
(See Note A-3.3.3.3.(2).)
3) Public corridors shall be not less than
a) 2 400 mm wide in buildings of care or treatment occupancy where the corridors
may be used to move patients or residents in beds,
b) 1 650 mm wide in buildings of care or treatment occupancy where the corridors
will not be used to move patients or residents in beds, or
c) 1 100 mm wide in buildings of care occupancy constructed in accordance with
Article 3.2.2.45.
4) Paired doors in a corridor referred to in Clauses (3)(a) and (b) shall
a) swing in opposite directions, the right-hand door swinging in the direction
of travel, and
b) be not less than 1 100 mm wide where the required width of the corridor
is 2 400 mm.
Doorway Width
1) Except as provided in Sentence (2), the minimum clear width of a doorway shall be 850 mm where it opens into or is located within a public corridor or other facility that provides access to exit for patients or residents in floor areas containing care or treatment occupancies.
2) The minimum clear width of doorways through which it is necessary to move patients in bed shall be 1 050 mm. (See Note A-3.3.3.4.(2).)
Compartments and Fire Separations
1) Except in the case of care occupancies constructed in accordance with
Article 3.2.2.46., floor areas containing patients’ or residents’ sleeping rooms in a care or treatment occupancy shall conform to Sentences (2) to (13).
3.3.3.4.
3.3.3.5.
3-128 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 3.3.3.5.
2) Except as permitted by Sentence (3), a floor area described in Sentence (1) shall be divided into not less than 2 fire compartments, each not more than 1 000 m2 in area.
3) The floor area on either side of a horizontal exit conforming to Article 3.4.6.10. is permitted to be considered as a fire compartment in applying the requirements of this Article.
4) Except as permitted by Sentence (5), fire separations separating fire compartments required by Sentence (2) shall have a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h.
5) The fire-resistance rating of a fire separation referred to in Sentence (4) is permitted to be less than 1 h but not less than 45 min provided the fire-resistance rating required by Subsection 3.2.2. is permitted to be less than 1 h for
a) the floor assembly above the floor area, or
b) the floor assembly below the floor area, if there is no floor assembly above.
6) The travel distance from any point within each fire compartment referred to in Sentence (2) to a door to an adjoining fire compartment shall be not more than 45 m.
7) Each fire compartment referred to in Sentence (2) shall be capable of accommodating, in addition to its own occupants, the occupants of the largest adjacent fire compartment based on a clear floor space of 2.5 m2 per patient in the adjacent fire compartment.
8) Except as provided in Sentences (9) to (13), walls between patients’ or residents’ sleeping rooms and the remainder of the floor area shall be constructed as fire separations but are not required to have a fire-resistance rating unless one is required by other provisions in this Part. (See Note A-3.1.8.1.(1)(b).)
9) The fire separation requirements of Sentence (8) do not apply to walls within a group of intercommunicating patients’ or residents’ sleeping rooms, provided the group of rooms does not
a) contain more than 5 patients or residents, or
b) include storage, bathing or toilet facilities serving persons not occupying
the group of rooms.
(See Note A-3.3.3.5.(9).)
10) Residential type electric cooking equipment is permitted to be installed in a fire compartment provided it is installed in a room separated from the remainder of the floor area by a fire separation having a fire-resistance rating of not less than 45 min.
11) A door in a fire separation required by Sentence (8) is permitted to be equipped with a roller latch.
12) Except as permitted by Sentence (13), a fire separation required by Sentence (8) shall not have any grilles, louvres or other openings.
13) A door or wall separating a patient’s or resident’s sleeping room from an ensuite toilet room, shower room or similar ancillary space is permitted to incorporate grilles and louvres, provided
a) the adjacent rooms are not used to store flammable or combustible materials, and
b) the openings are located so that smoke cannot pass through these rooms to other parts of the building.
(See Note A-3.3.3.5.(13).)
14) Walls between individual dwelling units of care occupancy and the remainder of the floor area in buildings of care occupancy shall be constructed as fire separations with a fire-resistance rating not less than that specified for residential occupancies in Sentences 3.3.4.2.(1) and (2).
15) Floor assemblies within individual dwelling units of care occupancy need not be constructed as fire separations, provided the suites meet the conditions described in Clauses 3.3.4.2.(3)(a) and (b).
16) The fire-resistance rating of the fire separation required by Sentence 3.3.5.6.(1) is permitted to be waived if the fire separation is located between individual dwelling unit of care occupancy and an attached storage garage containing not more than 5 vehicles, provided the conditions described in Sentence 3.3.4.2.(4) are met.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 3-129
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.3.3.6.
Division B
3.3.3.6.
Areas of Refuge
1) Compartments containing rooms such as operating rooms, recovery rooms, delivery rooms and intensive care units, from which it is impracticable to move patients in an emergency, shall be
a) separated from adjacent spaces by fire separations having a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h, and
b) provided with a mechanical air supply so that during a period of 2 h after the start of a fire in another space, the compartments will not contain more than 1% by volume of contaminated air from the fire area.
(See Note A-3.3.3.6.(1).)
Contained Use Areas
1) A contained use area shall conform to Sentences (2) to (5).
2) A contained use area shall be separated from the remainder of the building by a
fire separation having a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h.
3) Except as permitted by Sentence (4), a building that includes a contained use area shall be sprinklered throughout.
4) A contained use area, in a building for which Articles 3.2.2.20. to 3.2.2.90. do not require the installation of an automatic sprinkler system, is not required to be sprinklered as required by Sentence (3) provided
a) the building is designed so that during a period of 2 h after the start of a fire in the contained use area other fire compartments will not contain more than 1% by volume of contaminated air from the contained use area,
b) the building is designed so that during a period of 2 h after the start of a fire in another part of the building the contained use area will not contain more than 1% by volume of contaminated air from the other part of the building,
c) all doors are designed to be remotely released in conformance with Sentence 3.3.1.13.(6), and
d) the contained use area does not contain any rooms lined with combustible padding.
5) A corridor serving a contained use area shall have no dead-end portion unless the area served by the dead-end portion has a second and separate means of egress.
Means of Egress from Care Occupancies
1) Subject to Sentence (2), a floor area in a single-family type care occupancy referred to in Clause 3.2.2.46.(1)(c) shall
a) if it is located on the second storey, be served by an exterior exit door that is accessible to all the persons lodged and opens to an exterior stairway leading to ground level, the lower surface of the upper landing of which is protected by a noncombustible material, and
b) if it is located in a basement, be served by an exterior exit door accessible to all the persons lodged.
2) The requirements of Clause (1)(a) are permitted to be waived, for a single-family type private seniors’ residence, where the building is protected by a sprinkler system designed, constructed, installed and tested in accordance with NFPA 13D, “Installation of Sprinkler Systems in One- and Two-Family Dwellings and Manufactured Homes.”
Dwelling Units
1) A dwelling unit in a care occupancy
a) shall conform to Article 3.3.4.3.,
b) if it contains more than one storey, shall have an exit door or an egress door
opening directly into a public access to exit from the uppermost storey and from the lowest storey of the dwelling unit so that each of these storeys is served by an exit or egress door located not more than 1.5 m above or below its floor level, and
c) shall conform to Articles 3.3.4.5. to 3.3.4.9.
3.3.3.7.
3.3.3.8.
3.3.3.9.
3-130 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
3.3.4.3.
3.3.4. 3.3.4.1.
3.3.4.2.
Residential Occupancy Scope
1) This Subsection applies to residential occupancies. Fire Separations
1) Except as permitted by Sentences (2) and 3.2.2.9.(2), suites of residential occupancy shall be separated from each other and the remainder of the building by a fire separation having a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h.
2) The fire-resistance rating of the fire separation required by Sentence (1) is permitted to be less than 1 h but not less than 45 min provided the fire-resistance rating required by Subsection 3.2.2. is permitted to be less than 1 h for
a) the floor assembly above the floor area, or
b) the floor assembly below the floor area, if there is no floor assembly above.
3) Floor assemblies within a dwelling unit need not be constructed as fire separations provided
a) the distance between the lowest floor level and the uppermost floor level within the dwelling unit is not more than 7 m, and
b) the dwelling unit is separated from the remainder of the building by a fire separation having a fire-resistance rating not less than
i) 1hifthebuildingisnotsprinkleredthroughout,
ii) 45minifthebuildingissprinkleredthroughoutanditisnot
more than 3 storeys in building height, or
iii) 1 h if the building is sprinklered throughout and it is more
than 3 storeys in building height.
4) The fire-resistance rating of the fire separation required by Sentence 3.3.5.6.(1) is permitted to be waived if the fire separation is located between a dwelling unit and an attached storage garage containing not more than 5 vehicles, provided
a) the dwelling unit and the attached storage garage are sprinklered,
b) the dwelling unit and the attached storage garage are separated from the
remainder of the building in conformance with Sentences (1), (2) and (3),
c) there are no air duct systems connecting the storage garage and the dwelling
unit,
d) the construction between the storage garage and the dwelling unit provides an
effective barrier to gas and exhaust fumes, and
e) every door between the storage garage and the dwelling unit is
i) tight fitting and weather-stripped to provide an effective barrier against the passage of gas and exhaust fumes,
ii) fitted with a self-closing device, and
iii) notlocatedinaroomintendedforsleeping.
5) The fire separation required by Sentence 3.3.5.6.(1) is not required between a dwelling unit and an attached storage garage, serving that dwelling unit only, provided
a) the dwelling unit and its attached storage garage are separated from the remainder of the building in conformance with Sentences (1), (2) and (3),
b) there are no air duct systems connecting the storage garage and the dwelling unit,
c) the construction between the storage garage and the dwelling unit provides an effective barrier to gas and exhaust fumes, and
d) every door between the storage garage and the dwelling unit is i) tight fitting and weather-stripped to provide an effective
barrier against the passage of gas and exhaust fumes, ii) fitted with a self-closing device, and
iii) notlocatedinaroomintendedforsleeping.
Storage Rooms
1) Sprinklers shall be installed in a storage room provided for the use of tenants in
3.3.4.3.
a residential occupancy within a floor area but not contained within a suite.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 3-131
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.3.4.4.
Division B
3.3.4.4.
2) Except as permitted by Sentence (3), a storage room referred to in Sentence (1) shall be separated from the remainder of the building by a fire separation having a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h.
3) The fire-resistance rating of the fire separation required by Sentence (2) is permitted to be less than 1 h but not less than 45 min provided the fire-resistance rating required by Subsection 3.2.2. is permitted to be less than 1 h for
a) the floor assembly above the floor area, or
b) the floor assembly below the floor area, if there is no floor assembly above.
4) Except for the storage of flammable liquids and combustible liquids inside a single-family dwelling unit and garages or sheds attached to these dwelling units, where storage rooms are required by Part 4 of Division B of the NFC for the storage of flammable liquids or combustible liquids in residential occupancies, such rooms shall not be located above or below the first storey.
Egress from Dwelling Units
1) Single storey dwelling units in an apartment building need not lead to a public corridor or exterior passageway on the same storey provided the dwelling units are served by private stairways leading directly to a public access to exit on the storey
a) immediately above, and
b) immediately below.
(See Note A-3.3.4.4.(1).)
2) Except as permitted by Sentences (3) and (4), a dwelling unit containing more than one storey shall have an exit door or an egress door opening directly into a public access to exit from the uppermost storey and from the lowest storey of the dwelling unit so that each of these storeys is served by an exit or egress door located not more than 1.5 m above or below its floor level.
3) A single exit is permitted from a dwelling unit provided the exit is an exterior doorway not more than 1.5 m above adjacent ground level and
a) it is not necessary to travel up or down more than one storey to reach the exit door, or
b) the uppermost floor level opens to a balcony not more than 6 m above adjacent ground level.
4) An egress door from either the uppermost storey or the lowest storey of a dwelling unit, as required by Sentence (2), need not be provided if that storey is served by a stairway that
a) leads to a public access to exit,
b) has no direct access to any other storey in the dwelling unit, and
c) is separated from the other storeys in the dwelling unit by a fire separation having a fire-resistance rating not less than 45 min.
5) In a building of residential occupancy not more than 3 storeys in building height, a doorway from a dwelling unit is permitted to open directly into an exit stairway provided the dwelling unit has a second and separate means of egress.
6) If a dwelling unit has a second and separate means of egress, one means of egress from a dwelling unit is permitted to pass through
a) an interior corridor served by a single exit,
b) an exterior balcony served by a single exit stairway, or
c) an exterior passageway served by a single exit stairway.
Automatic Locking Prohibition
1) Except for hotels and motels, a door opening onto a public corridor which provides access to exit from a suite shall be designed not to lock automatically. (See Note A-3.3.4.5.(1).)
Sound Transmission
1) Occupants of dwelling units shall be protected from airborne noise in
conformance with Section 5.8.
3.3.4.5.
3.3.4.6.
3-132 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 3.3.5.3.
3.3.4.7.
3.3.4.8.
Stairs, Ramps, Landings, Handrails and Guards for Dwelling Units
1) Except as required in Article 3.3.4.8., stairs, ramps, landings, handrails and guards within a dwelling unit shall conform to the appropriate requirements in Section 9.8.
2) Exterior stairs, ramps, landings, handrails and guards serving a single dwelling unit, and loads on guards serving not more than two dwelling units, shall conform to the appropriate requirements in Section 9.8.
Protection of Openable Windows
1) Except as provided in Sentence (2), openable windows in suites of residential occupancy shall be protected by
a) a guard with a minimum height of 1 070 mm constructed in accordance with Article 3.3.1.18., or
b) a mechanism capable of controlling the free swinging or sliding of the openable part of the window so as to limit any clear unobstructed opening to not more than 100 mm measured either vertically or horizontally where the other dimension is greater than 380 mm.
2) Windows need not be protected in accordance with Sentence (1) where
a) the only opening having greater dimensions than those allowed by
Clause (1)(b) is located higher than 900 mm above the finished floor, or
b) the bottom edge of the openable portion of the window is located less than
1 800 mm above the floor or ground on the other side of the window.
Doorway Sizes
1) Doorways in a dwelling unit shall conform to Article 9.5.5.1.
Hallways
1) The unobstructed width of a hallway within a dwelling unit shall be conform to
Article 9.5.4.1.
Entrance Doors
1) The entrance door of a dwelling unit shall conform to Article 9.7.2.1.
Resistance to Forced Entry for Doors
1) The entrance door of a dwelling unit shall conform to Article 9.7.5.2.
Resistance to Forced Entry for Windows
1) In dwelling units, windows shall conform to Article 9.7.5.3.
Industrial Occupancy Scope
1) This Subsection applies to industrial occupancies. Fire Extinguishing Systems
1) In addition to other requirements in this Code for the installation of automatic fire extinguishing systems, an appropriate fire extinguishing system shall be installed in every industrial occupancy floor area to provide protection if required by
a) provincial or territorial regulations or municipal bylaws, or
b) the NFC, in the absence of the regulations or bylaws referred to in Clause (a).
Basements
1) A basement shall not be used for the storage, manufacture or handling of volatile solids, liquids or gases that generate explosive air-vapour mixtures or for processes that involve explosive dusts.
3.3.4.9.
3.3.4.10.
3.3.4.11.
3.3.4.12.
3.3.4.13.
3.3.5. 3.3.5.1.
3.3.5.2.
3.3.5.3.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 3-133
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.3.5.4.
Division B
3.3.5.4.
2) Entrances and exits to a basement and to rooms containing building services shall be separate from the remainder of the building in a building in which
a) the storage, manufacture or handling of volatile materials can generate explosive air-vapour mixtures, or
b) processes occur that produce explosive dusts.
3) Basements and rooms referred to in Sentence (2) shall be separated from the
remainder of the building with a vapour-tight separation. Repair and Storage Garages
1) If access is provided from a storage garage to a stair tower or elevator serving occupancies above the level of the storage garage, the access shall be through a vestibule conforming to Sentence 3.3.5.7.(4).
2) Treads and landings in interior stairs that extend to the roof of a storage garage shall be designed to be free of accumulations of ice and snow.
3) A mechanical storage garage not more than 4 storeys in building height, in which no persons other than parking attendants are permitted above the street floor level, need not have a fire separation between the exits and the remainder of the building.
4) A garage shall be provided with natural or mechanical ventilation in conformance with the requirements of Subsection 6.3.1. and Article 6.9.1.2. to prevent excessive accumulation of carbon monoxide, exhaust fumes or flammable and toxic vapours.
5) The clear height in a storage garage shall be not less than 2 m.
6) Where garage floors or ramps are 600 mm or more above the adjacent ground
or floor level, every opening through such floors and the perimeter of floors and ramps shall be provided with
a) a continuous curb not less than 140 mm high, a guard not less than 1 070 mm high, and a vehicle guardrail not less than 500 mm high conforming to Sentence (7), or
b) a full-height wall conforming to Sentence (7).
7) Vehicle guardrails and full-height walls required in Sentence (6) shall be designed and constructed to withstand the loading values stipulated in Sentence 4.1.5.15.(1).
8) Except for open-air storeys, every storey of a storage garage or repair garage located below grade shall be sprinklered.
Repair Garage Separation
1) A repair garage and any ancillary spaces serving it, including waiting rooms, reception rooms, tool and parts storage areas and supervisory office space, shall be separated from other occupancies by a fire separation having a fire-resistance rating not less than 2 h.
Storage Garage Separation
1) Except as permitted by Sentences 3.3.4.2.(4) and (5), a storage garage shall be separated from other occupancies by a fire separation with a fire-resistance rating not less than 1.5 h. (See Note A-3.3.5.6.(1).)
Vestibules
1) Except as provided in Sentence (2), if access is provided through a fire separation between a storage garage and a Group A, Division 1 or Group B occupancy, the access shall be through a vestibule conforming to Sentence (4).
2) If access is provided through a fire separation between a storage garage and a Group B, Division 3 occupancy with not more than 10 occupants, access need not be through a vestibule, provided the fire separation complies with Clauses 3.3.4.2.(5)(b) to (d).
3.3.5.5.
3.3.5.6.
3.3.5.7.
3-134 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 3.3.6.2.
3.3.5.8.
3.3.5.9.
3.3.5.10.
3.3.5.11.
3.3.6. 3.3.6.1.
3.3.6.2.
3) In a building more than 3 storeys in building height, access through a fire separation between a storage garage and a Group A, Division 2, 3 or 4, or a Group C occupancy, shall be through a vestibule conforming to Sentence (4).
4) If access is provided through a vestibule, as required by Sentences (1), (3) and 3.3.5.4.(1), the vestibule shall
a) be not less than 1.8 m long,
b) be ventilated
i) naturallytooutsideairbyaventthathasanunobstructed area of not less than 0.1 m2 for each door that opens into the vestibule but not less than 0.4 m2, or
ii) mechanicallyatarateof14m3/hforeachsquaremetreof vestibule floor surface area, and
c) have openings between the vestibule and an adjoining occupancy provided with self-closing doors with no hold-open devices.
Dispensing of Fuel
1) Facilities for the dispensing of fuel having a flash point below 37.8°C shall not be
installed above any space intended for occupancy.
2) Facilities for the dispensing of fuel having a flash point below 37.8°C shall not be installed in any building, except that this requirement does not apply to a canopy which is open on not less than 75% of its perimeter.
Multiple-Tenant Self-Storage Warehouses
1) Except as provided in Sentence 3.9.3.1.(5) or unless the building is sprinklered throughout, each individual tenancy in a multiple tenant self storage warehouse classified as an industrial occupancy shall be separated from the remainder of the building by a fire separation having a fire-resistance rating not less than 45 min.
Guards
1) Except where they serve storage garages, guards in industrial occupancies are permitted to consist of
a) a top railing, and
b) one or more intermediate rails spaced such that openings through the
guard are of a size that prevents the passage of a spherical object whose diameter is 535 mm.
Flat Roofs for Heliports
1) A flat roof used for landing a helicopter shall comply with the requirements of
Articles 2.13.1.1. to 2.13.2.1. of the NFC.
Design of Hazardous Areas Application
1) This Subsection applies to design and fire protection requirements for buildings or parts thereof used for the storage, handling, use and processing of dangerous goods, including flammable liquids and combustible liquids, in quantities in excess of those identified in Table 3.2.7.1. of Division B of the NFC. (See Note A-3.3.6.1.(1).)
Storage of Dangerous Goods
1) Solid and liquid dangerous goods classified as oxidizers or organic peroxides shall be separated from the remainder of the building by a fire separation having a fire-resistance rating of not less than 2 h.
2) Reactive materials shall be separated from the remainder of the building by a fire separation having a fire-resistance rating of not less than 2 h. (See Note A-3.3.6.2.(2).)
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 3-135
  © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.3.6.3.
Division B
3.3.6.3.
3) The design of buildings or parts thereof used for the storage of dangerous goods classified as explosives shall conform to the “Explosives Act” and its Regulations, published by Natural Resources Canada.
4) Where wiring or electrical equipment is located in areas in which flammable gases or vapours, combustible dusts or combustible fibres are present in quantities sufficient to create a hazard, such wiring and electrical equipment shall conform
to CSA C22.1, “Canadian Electrical Code, Part I,” for hazardous locations. (See Note A-3.3.6.2.(4).)
Indoor Storage of Anhydrous Ammonia and Flammable, Toxic and Oxidizing Gases
3.3.6.4.
3.3.6.5.
3.3.6.6.
3-136 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
1)
gases a)
b) c) d)
Where required by the NFC, cylinders of dangerous goods classified as flammable stored indoors shall be located in a room
that is separated from the remainder of the building by a gas-tight fire separation having a fire-resistance rating of at least 2 h,
that is located on an exterior wall of the building,
that can be entered from the exterior, and
whose closures leading to the interior of the building are
i) equipped with self-closing devices that keep the closures
closed when not in use, and
ii) constructedsoastopreventthemigrationofgasesfromthe
room into other parts of the building.
Where required by the NFC, cylinders of anhydrous ammonia or dangerous goods classified as toxic or oxidizing gases stored indoors shall be located in a room
a) that is separated from the remainder of the building by a gas-tight fire separation having a fire-resistance rating of at least 1 h,
b) that is located on an exterior wall of the building,
c) that can be entered from the exterior,
d) whose closures leading to the interior of the building are
i) equipped with self-closing devices that keep the closures
closed when not in use, and
ii) constructedsoastopreventthemigrationofgasesfromthe
room into other parts of the building, and
e) vented to the outside.
Storage and Dispensing Rooms for Flammable Liquids and Combustible Liquids
1) Fire separations for rooms where flammable liquids and combustible liquids are stored are required to be constructed with a fire-resistance rating in conformance with Subsection 4.2.9. of Division B of the NFC.
2) Where Class IA or IB liquids specified in Subsection 4.1.2. of Division B of the NFC are dispensed within a storage room, the room shall be designed to prevent critical structural and mechanical damage from an internal explosion in conformance with good engineering practice such as that described in NFPA 68, “Explosion Protection by Deflagration Venting.” (See Note A-3.3.6.4.(2).)
Tire Storage
1) A tire storage area designed to contain more than 375 m3 of rubber tires shall be separated from the remainder of the building by a fire separation having a fire-resistance rating of not less than 2 h. (See Note A-3.3.6.5.(1).)
Ammonium Nitrate Storage
1) Where Article 3.2.9.1. of Division B of the NFC applies due to the quantity and nature of the stored product, and as stipulated in Sentences (2) to (6), buildings used for the storage of ammonium nitrate shall be classified as medium-hazard industrial occupancies (Group F, Division 2).
2)
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 3.4.1.1.
3.3.6.7.
3.3.6.8.
3.3.6.9.
3.3.7. 3.3.7.1.
3.3.7.2.
2) Buildings intended for the storage of ammonium nitrate shall be not more than one storey in building height.
3) Buildings intended for the storage of ammonium nitrate shall not
a) have basements or crawl spaces, or
b) contain open floor drains, tunnels, elevator pits or other pockets that might
trap molten ammonium nitrate.
4) Buildings intended for the storage of ammonium nitrate shall have not less than 0.007 m2 of vent area for each square metre of storage area, unless mechanical ventilation is provided.
5) All flooring in storage areas described in Sentence (1) shall be constructed of noncombustible materials.
6) Buildings intended for the storage of ammonium nitrate shall be designed to prevent the ammonium nitrate from coming into contact with building materials that
a) will cause the ammonium nitrate to become unstable,
b) may corrode or deteriorate by reason of contact with the ammonium nitrate,
or
c) will become impregnated with the ammonium nitrate.
(See Note A-3.3.6.6.(6).)
Flooring Materials
1) Floors in areas where dangerous goods are stored shall be constructed of
impermeable materials to prevent the absorption of chemicals.
Fire Separations in Process Plants
1) In process plants, areas where unstable liquids are handled or where small-scale unit chemical processes occur shall be separated from the remainder of the building by a fire separation having a fire-resistance rating of not less than 2 h.
Basements and Pits
1) Process plants where Class I and II flammable liquids and combustible liquids are
handled shall not be constructed with basements or covered pits. Business Occupancies
Application
1) This Subsection applies to buildings constructed in accordance with
Article 3.2.2.50. or 3.2.2.58.
Floor Area with a Group D Occupancy
1) A floor area consisting of a sole suite that is over 2 000 m2 and serving a Group D occupancy shall be divided by a fire separation with no fire-resistance rating into two zones served by a separate exit such that the travel distance from any point in one zone to a door leading to the other zone is not more than the travel distance permitted
by Sentence 3.4.2.5.(1).
Section 3.4. Exits
3.4.1. General 3.4.1.1. Scope
1) Exit facilities complying with this Section shall be provided from every floor area that is intended for occupancy. (See Note A-3.4.1.1.(1).)
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 3-137
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.4.1.2.
Division B
3.4.1.2.
3.4.1.3.
3.4.1.4.
Separation of Exits
1) Except as permitted by Sentence (2), if more than one exit is required from a
floor area, each exit shall be separate from every other exit leading from that floor area.
2) If more than 2 exits are provided from a floor area, exits are permitted to converge in conformance with Sentence 3.4.3.1.(2), provided the cumulative capacity of the converging exits does not contribute more than 50% of the total required exit width for the floor area.
Access to Exits
1) Access to exits shall conform to Section 3.3.
Types of Exit
1) Subject to the requirements of this Section, an exit from any floor area shall be one of the following, used singly or in combination:
a) an exterior doorway,
b) an exterior passageway,
c) an exterior ramp,
d) an exterior stairway,
e) a fire escape (conforming to Subsection 3.4.7.),
f) a horizontal exit,
g) an interior passageway,
h) an interior ramp, or
i) an interior stairway.
Exterior Exit Passageways
1) Access to an exterior exit passageway from a floor area shall be through exit
doors at the floor level.
Restricted Use of Horizontal Exits
1) Except as permitted by Sentence (2), horizontal exits shall not comprise more
than one half of the required number of exits from any floor area.
2) In a hospital or nursing home with treatment, horizontal exits serving patients’ sleeping rooms shall comprise not more than two thirds of the required number of exits from any floor area. (See Note A-3.4.1.6.(2).)
Slide Escapes
1) A slide escape shall not be erected on any building as a required exit, but is permitted to be provided as an additional egress facility if unusual hazards are foreseen.
Transparent Doors and Panels
1) Glass and transparent panels in an exit shall conform to the appropriate
requirements of Article 3.3.1.19. for glass and transparent panels in an access to exit. Mirrors near Exits
1) No mirror shall be placed in or adjacent to any exit in a manner that would confuse the direction of exit.
Combustible Glazing in Exits
1) Combustible glazing is not permitted in wall or ceiling assemblies or in closures
used to construct an exit enclosure.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
3.4.1.5.
3.4.1.6.
3.4.1.7.
3.4.1.8.
3.4.1.9.
3.4.1.10.
3-138 Division B
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 3.4.2.2.
3.4.2. Number and Location of Exits from Floor Areas 3.4.2.1. Minimum Number of Exits
Group A Group B Group C Group D Group E GroupF, GroupF,
Group A Group B Group C Group D Group E GroupF, GroupF,
Occupancy of Floor Area
Division 2 Division 3
3.4.2.2.
3) Except as permitted by Sentence (4), if Sentence (2) permits a single exit from a floor area classified as Group B or Group C occupancy, the exit shall be an exterior doorway not more than 1.5 m above adjacent ground level.
4) The requirements of Sentences (1) and (2) are permitted to be waived for dwelling units that have an access to exit conforming to Sentences 3.3.4.4.(1) to (4).
5) Exits are not required directly from rooftop enclosures that are provided with access to exits in conformance with Sentences 3.3.1.3.(5) and (6).
Means of Egress from Mezzanines
1) Except as permitted by Sentences (2) and (3), the space above a mezzanine shall be served by means of egress leading to exits accessible at the mezzanine level on the same basis as floor areas.
Division 2 Division 3
1) Except as permitted by Sentences (2) to (4), every floor area intended for occupancy shall be served by at least 2 exits.
2) A floor area in a building not more than 2 storeys in building height, is permitted to be served by one exit provided the total occupant load served by the exit is not more than 60, and
a) in a floor area that is not sprinklered throughout, the floor area and the travel distance are not more than the values in Table 3.4.2.1.-A, or
b) in a floor area that is sprinklered throughout
i) thetraveldistanceisnotmorethan25m,and
ii) thefloorareaisnotmorethanthevalueinTable3.4.2.1.-B.
Table 3.4.2.1.-A
Criteria for One Exit (Floor Area Not Sprinklered Throughout) Forming Part of Sentence 3.4.2.1.(2)
Maximum Floor Area , m2
                               150
                               75
                               100
                               200
                               150
                               150
                               200
Table 3.4.2.1.-B
Criteria for One Exit (Floor Area Sprinklered Throughout) Forming Part of Sentence 3.4.2.1.(2)
Maximum Travel Distance, m
           15
           10
           15
           25
           15
           10
           15
Occupancy of Floor Area
Maximum Floor Area , m2
         200
         100
         150
         300
         200
         200
         300
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 3-139
      © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.4.2.3.
Division B
3.4.2.3.
Distance between Exits
3-140 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
2) The means of egress from a mezzanine need not conform to Sentence (1), provided
a) the mezzanine is not required to terminate at a vertical fire separation, as
permitted in Sentence 3.2.8.2.(1),
b) the occupant load of the mezzanine is not more than 60,
c) the area of the mezzanine does not exceed the area limits stated in Table 3.4.2.2., and
d) the distance limits stated in Table 3.4.2.2. measured along the path of travel are not exceeded from any point on the mezzanine to
i) an egress door serving the space that the mezzanine overlooks, if the space is served by a single egress door, or
ii) theegressstairwayleadingtoanaccesstoexitinthespace
below if that space is required to be served by 2 or more egress doorways in conformance with Sentence 3.3.1.5.(1).
3) At least half of the required means of egress from a mezzanine shall comply with Sentence (1) if the mezzanine is not required to terminate at a fire separation as permitted by Sentence 3.2.8.2.(1).
Table 3.4.2.2.
Criteria for Egress from Mezzanine Space Forming Part of Sentence 3.4.2.2.(2)
Occupancy of Space
Assembly occupancy
Residential occupancy
Business and personal services occupancy Mercantile occupancy
Medium-hazard industrial occupancy Low-hazard industrial occupancy
Maximum Area, m2
      150
      100
      200
      150
      150
      200
Distance Limits, m
       15
       15
       25
       15
       10
       15
1) Except as provided in Sentence (2), the least distance between 2 exits from a floor area shall be
a) one half the maximum diagonal dimension of the floor area, but need not be more than 9 m for a floor area having a public corridor, or
b) one half the maximum diagonal dimension of the floor area, but not less than 9 m for all other floor areas.
(See Note A-3.4.2.3.(1).)
2) Exits need not comply with Sentence (1) where
a) the floor area is divided so that not less than one third of the floor area is
on each side of a fire separation, and
b) it is necessary to pass through the fire separation to travel from one exit to
another exit.
3) The minimum distance between exits referred to in Sentence (1) shall be the shortest distance that smoke would have to travel between the exits, assuming that the smoke will not penetrate an intervening fire separation.
4) The distance between 2 exterior discharges of exit stairs serving the same floor area shall be
a) b)
not less than 9 m, or
not less than 6 m, where
i) thebuildingissprinkleredthroughout,and
ii) the2exteriordischargesarelocatedwithin15mofastreet.
    © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 3.4.2.6.
3.4.2.4.
Travel Distance
1) Except as permitted by Sentence (2), for the purposes of this Subsection, travel distance means the distance from any point in the floor area to an exit measured along the path of travel to the exit.
2) The travel distance from a suite or a room not within a suite is permitted to be measured from an egress door of the suite or room to the nearest exit, provided
a) the suite or room is separated from the remainder of the floor area by a fire separation
i) havingafire-resistanceratingnotlessthan45mininafloor area that is not sprinklered throughout, or
ii) whichisnotrequiredtohaveafire-resistancerating,inafloor area that is sprinklered throughout, and
b) the egress door opens onto
i) an exterior passageway,
ii) a corridor used by the public that is separated from
the remainder of the floor area in conformance with the requirements in Article 3.3.1.4. for the separation of public corridors, or
iii) a public corridor that is separated from the remainder of the floor area in conformance with Article 3.3.1.4. (see Note A-3.1.8.1.(1)(b)).
3) Travel distance to an exit shall be not more than 50 m from any point in a service space referred to in Sentence 3.2.1.1.(8).
Location of Exits
1) Except as permitted by Sentences (2) and 3.3.2.5.(6), if more than one exit is required from a floor area, the exits shall be located so that the travel distance to at least one exit shall be not more than
a) 25 m in a high-hazard industrial occupancy,
b) 40 m in a business and personal services occupancy,
c) 45 m in a floor area that contains an occupancy other than a high-hazard industrial occupancy, provided it is sprinklered throughout,
d) 105 m in any floor area, served by a public corridor, in which rooms and suites are not separated from the remainder of the floor area by a fire separation, provided
i) thepubliccorridorisnotlessthan9mwide,
ii) theceilingheightinthepubliccorridorisnotlessthan4m
above all floor surfaces,
iii) thebuildingissprinkleredthroughout,and
iv) not more than one half of the required egress doorways
from a room or suite open into the public corridor if the room
or suite is required to have more than one egress doorway,
e) 60 m in any storage garage that conforms to the requirements of
Article 3.2.2.90., and
f) 30 m in any floor area other than those referred to in Clauses (a) to (e).
2) Except for a high-hazard industrial occupancy, Sentence (1) need not apply if exits are placed along the perimeter of the floor area and are not more than 60 m apart, measured along the perimeter, provided each main aisle in the floor area leads directly to an exit.
3) Exits shall be located and arranged so that they are clearly visible or their locations are clearly indicated and they are accessible at all times.
Principal Entrances
1) For the purposes of this Section, at least one door at every principal entrance to a building providing access from the exterior at ground level shall be designed in accordance with the requirements for exits.
3.4.2.5.
3.4.2.6.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 3-141
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.4.3.1.
Division B
3.4.3. 3.4.3.1.
3.4.3.2.
2) In a building that is not sprinklered throughout in accordance with
Sentence 3.2.5.12.(1), the principal entrance serving a dance hall or a licensed beverage establishment with an occupant load more than 250 shall provide at least one half of the required exit width.
Width and Height of Exits
Exit Width Based on Occupant Load
1) For the purpose of determining the aggregate width of exits, the occupant load of every room or floor area shall be determined in conformance with Subsection 3.1.17.
2) Except as permitted by Sentence 3.4.3.2.(4), the required exit width shall be cumulative if 2 or more exits converge.
Exit Width
1) Except as permitted by Sentence (3), the minimum aggregate required width of exits serving floor areas intended for assembly occupancies, residential occupancies, business and personal services occupancies, mercantile occupancies, and industrial occupancies shall be determined by multiplying the occupant load of the area served by
a) 6.1 mm per person for ramps with a slope of not more than 1 in 8, doorways, corridors and passageways,
b) 8 mm per person for a stair consisting of steps whose rise is not more than 180 mm and whose run is not less than 280 mm, or
c) 9.2 mm per person for
i) rampswithaslopeofmorethan1in8,or
ii) stairs, other than stairs conforming to Clause (b).
2) The minimum aggregate width of exits serving floor areas intended for a care, treatment or detention occupancy shall be determined by multiplying the occupant load of the area served by 18.4 mm per person.
3) The minimum aggregate width of means of egress serving a Group A, Division 4 occupancy shall be determined by multiplying the occupant load of the area served by
a) 1.8 mm per person for i) aisles,
ii) stairs other than exit stairs, and
iii) rampsandpassagewaysinvomitoriesandexits,and
b) 2.4 mm per person for exit stairs.
4) Except as required by Sentences 3.4.3.2.(5) and (6), the required exit width need
not be cumulative in an exit serving 2 or more floor areas located one above the other. 5) The required exit width for an exit stair in an assembly hall or theatre serving
more than one balcony level shall conform to Sentence (6).
6) The required exit width for exit stairs that serve interconnected floor space designed in accordance with Articles 3.2.8.3. to 3.2.8.8. shall be cumulative, unless
a) the stairs provide not less than 0.3 m2 of area of treads and landings for each occupant of the interconnected floor space (see Note A-3.4.3.2.(6)(a)), or
b) protected floor spaces conforming to Article 3.2.8.5. are provided at each floor level and the protected floor space on a floor level has not less than 0.5 m2 of space for each occupant of that floor level of the interconnected floor space.
(See Note A-3.4.3.2.(6).)
7) If more than one exit is required, every exit shall be considered as contributing
not more than one half of the required exit width.
8) The minimum widths of exits shall conform to Tables 3.4.3.2.-Aand 3.4.3.2.-B.
3-142 Division B
Amended Page National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
3.4.3.4.
Occupancy Classification
Group A, Group B, Division 1, Group C, Group D, Group E, Group F
Notes to Table 3.4.3.2.-A:
Exit Corridors and Passageways, mm
1 100
Ramps, mm
1 100
Stairs, mm
900(1) 1 100(2)
Doorways, mm
800
Occupancy Classification
Group B, Division 2 Group B, Division 3
with more than 10 residents
with not more than 10 residents
Notes to Table 3.4.3.2.-B:
Exit Corridors and Passage- ways, mm
1 100
1 100 1 100
1 100
1 100 1 100
1 650
1 100 1 100
900(2) 1 100(3)
900(2) 1 100(3)
900(2) 1 100(3)
1 650
1 100(2) 1 650(3)
900(2) 1 100(3)
850
850 850
1 050
850 850
Table 3.4.3.2.-A
Minimum Widths of Exit Corridors, Passageways, Ramps, Stairs and Doorways in Group A, Group B, Division 1, and Groups C, D, E and F Occupancies Forming Part of Sentence 3.4.3.2.(8)
(1) Serving not more than 2 storeys above the lowest exit level or not more than 1 storey below the lowest exit level.
(2) Serving more than 2 storeys above the lowest exit level or more than 1 storey below the lowest exit level.
Table 3.4.3.2.-B
Minimum Widths of Exit Corridors, Passageways, Ramps, Stairs and Doorways in Group B, Division 2 and Division 3 Occupancies
Forming Part of Sentence 3.4.3.2.(8)
(1) Minimum widths of ramps, stairs and doorways do not apply within individual
(2) Serving not more than 2 storeys above the lowest exit level or not more than
(3) Serving more than 2 storeys above the lowest exit level or more than 1 storey below the lowest exit level.
3.4.3.3.
Exit Width Reduction
1) Except as permitted by Sentences (2) and (4), no fixture, turnstile or
construction shall project into or be fixed within the required width of an exit.
2) Swinging doors in their swing shall not reduce the required width of exit stairs or landings to less than 750 mm or reduce the width of an exit passageway to less than the minimum required width.
3) Doors shall be installed so that, when open, they do not diminish nor obstruct the required width of the exit.
4) Handrails and construction below handrails, including handrail supports and stair stringers, shall not project more than 100 mm into the required width of a means of egress.
Clear Height
(See Note A-3.4.3.4.)
1) Except as permitted by Sentences (4) and (5), every exit shall have a clear height over the clear width of the exit of not less than 2 050 mm.
3.4.3.4.
Ramps, mm
Stairs, mm
Doorways, mm
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 3-143
suites of care occupancy.
1 storey below the lowest exit level.
        Not serving patients’ or residents’ sleeping rooms(1)
Serving patients’ or residents’ sleeping rooms(1)
  Not serving patients’ or residents’ sleeping rooms(1)
Serving patients’ or residents’ sleeping rooms(1)
  Not serving patients’ or residents’ sleeping rooms(1)
 Serving patients’ or residents’ sleeping rooms(1)
    © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.4.4.1.
Division B
3.4.4. 3.4.4.1.
2) The clear height of stairways shall be measured vertically over the clear width of the stairway, from the straight line tangent to the tread and landing nosings to the lowest element above. (See Note A-9.8.7.4.)
3) The clear height of landings shall be measured within the clear width of the landing vertically to the lowest element above.
4) Except as permitted by Sentence (5), the clear height for doorways shall be not less than 2 030 mm.
5) No door closer or other device shall be installed so as to reduce the clear height of a doorway to less than 1 980 mm.
Fire Separation of Exits Fire-Resistance Rating of Exit Separations
1) Except as permitted by Sentences (2), 3.3.5.4.(3), 3.4.4.2.(2) and 3.4.4.3.(1), every exit shall be separated from the remainder of the building by a fire separation having a fire-resistance rating not less than that required by Subsection 3.2.2., but not less than 45 min, for
a) the floor assembly above the storey, or
b) the floor assembly below the storey, if there is no floor assembly above.
2) The fire-resistance rating of the fire separation referred to in Sentence (1) need not be more than 2 h.
3) If an exit stair in an assembly hall or theatre serves more than one balcony level, the exit stair shall be separated from the remainder of the building in conformance with Sentence (1).
Exits through Lobbies
1) Except as permitted by Sentence (2), no exit from a floor area above or below
the first storey shall lead through a lobby.
2) Not more than one exit from a floor area is permitted to lead through a lobby, provided
a) the lobby floor is not more than 4.5 m above grade,
b) the path of travel through the lobby to the outdoors is not more than 15 m,
c) the adjacent rooms or premises having direct access to the lobby do not contain a care, residential or industrial occupancy,
d) the lobby is not located within an interconnected floor space other than as described in Sentence 3.2.8.2.(6),
e) the lobby conforms to the requirements for exits, except that
i) rooms other than service rooms and storage rooms are
permitted to open onto the lobby,
ii) thefireseparationbetweenthelobbyandaroomusedforthe
sole purpose of control and supervision of the building need
not have a fire-resistance rating,
iii) thefireseparationbetweenthelobbyandadjacentoccupancies
that are permitted to open onto the lobby need not have a fire-resistance rating provided the lobby and adjacent occupancies are sprinklered, and
iv) passengerelevatorsarepermittedtoopenontothelobby, provided the elevator doors are designed to remain closed except while loading and unloading passengers, and
(see Note A-3.4.4.2.(2)(e))
f) a fire separation, constructed in accordance with Sentence 3.4.4.1.(1), is
maintained between the lobby and any exit permitted by this Sentence to
lead through the lobby. (See Note A-3.4.4.2.(2).)
3.4.4.2.
3-144 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 3.4.5.1.
3.4.4.3.
3.4.4.4.
Exterior Passageway Exceptions
1) The requirements of Sentences 3.4.4.1.(1) and 3.2.3.13.(1) and (3) do not apply to an exterior exit passageway provided
a) not less than 50% of the exterior side is open to the outdoors, and
b) an exit stair is provided at each end of the passageway.
Integrity of Exits
1) A fire separation that separates an exit from the remainder of the building shall have no openings except for
a) standpipe and sprinkler piping,
b) electrical wires and cables, totally enclosed noncombustible raceways and
noncombustible piping that serve only the exit,
c) openings required by the provisions of Subsection 3.2.6.,
d) exit doorways, and
e) wired glass and glass block permitted by Article 3.1.8.16.
2) Exits within scissors stairs and other contiguous exit stairways shall be separated from each other by a smoke-tight fire separation having a fire-resistance rating not less than that required for the floor assembly through which they pass.
3) Fire separations separating contiguous stairs described in Sentence (2) shall not be pierced by doorways, ductwork, piping or any other openings that affect the continuity of the separation.
4) A fuel-fired appliance shall not be installed in an exit.
5) An exit shall not be used as a plenum for a heating, ventilating or air-conditioning
system.
6) An exit shall be designed for no purpose other than for exiting, except that an
exit is permitted also to be designed to serve as an access to a floor area.
7) A service room shall not open directly into an exit.
8) Storage rooms, washrooms, toilet rooms, laundry rooms and similar ancillary
rooms shall not open directly into an exit.
9) Service spaces referred to in Sentence 3.2.1.1.(8) shall not open directly into an exit.
Exit Signs Exit Signs
1) Every exit door shall have an exit sign placed over or adjacent to it if the exit serves
a) a building more than 2 storeys in building height,
b) a building having an occupant load of more than 150, or
c) a room or floor area that has a fire escape as part of a required means of egress.
2) Every exit sign shall
a) be visible on approach to the exit,
b) consist of a green and white or lightly tinted graphical symbol meeting
the colour specifications referred to in ISO 3864-1, “Graphical symbols – Safety colours and safety signs – Part 1: Design principles for safety signs and safety markings,” and
c) conform to ISO 7010, “Graphical symbols – Safety colours and safety signs – Registered safety signs,” for the following symbols (see Note A-3.4.5.1.(2)(c)):
i) E001 emergency exit left, ii) E002 emergency exit right,
iii) E005 90-degree directional arrow, and iv) E006 45-degree directional arrow.
3.4.5. 3.4.5.1.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division B
3-145
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.4.5.2.
Division B
3.4.5.2.
3.4.6. 3.4.6.1.
3.4.6.2.
3.4.6.3.
3) Internally illuminated exit signs shall be continuously illuminated and
a) where illumination of the sign is powered by an electrical circuit, be
constructed in conformance with CSA C22.2 No. 141, “Emergency Lighting
Equipment,” or
b) where illumination of the sign is not powered by an electrical circuit, be
constructed in conformance with CAN/ULC-S572, “Photoluminescent and Self-Luminous Exit Signs and Path Marking Systems.”
4) Externally illuminated exit signs shall be continuously illuminated and be constructed in conformance with CAN/ULC-S572, “Photoluminescent and Self-Luminous Exit Signs and Path Marking Systems.” (See Note A-3.4.5.1.(4).)
5) The circuitry serving lighting for externally and internally illuminated exit signs shall
a) serve no equipment other than emergency equipment, and
b) be connected to an emergency power supply as described in Article 3.2.7.4.
6) Where no exit is visible from a public corridor, from a corridor used by the public in a Group A or B major occupancy, or from principal routes serving an open floor area having an occupant load of more than 150, an exit sign conforming to Clauses (2)(b) and (c) with an arrow or pointer indicating the direction of egress shall be provided.
7) Except for egress doorways described in Sentence 3.3.2.4.(4), an exit sign conforming to Sentences (2) to (5) shall be placed over or adjacent to every egress doorway from rooms with an occupant load of more than 60 in Group A, Division 1 occupancies, dance halls, licensed beverage establishments, and other similar occupancies that, when occupied, have lighting levels below that which would provide easy identification of the egress doorway.
Signs for Stairs and Ramps at Exit Level
1) In a building more than 2 storeys in building height, any part of an exit ramp or stairway that continues up or down past the lowest exit level shall have a posted sign clearly indicating that it does not lead to an exit.
Types of Exit Facilities
(See Note A-3.4.6.)
Slip Resistance of Ramps and Stairs
1) The surfaces of ramps, and landings and treads
a) shall have a finish that is slip resistant, and
b) if accessible to the public, shall have either a colour contrast or a distinctive
pattern to demarcate the leading edge of the tread and the leading edge of the landing, as well as the beginning and end of a ramp.
2) Treads and landings of exterior exit stairs more than 10 m high shall be designed to be free of ice and snow accumulations.
Minimum Number of Risers
1) Except as permitted by Sentence 3.3.1.14.(3), every flight of interior stairs shall
have not less than 3 risers.
Maximum Vertical Rise of Stair Flights and Required Landings
1) No flight of stairs shall have a vertical rise of more than 3.7 m between floors or landings, except that a flight of stairs serving as an exit in a Group B, Division 2 occupancy shall have a vertical rise not more than 2.4 m between floors or landings.
2) Except as provided in Sentence (3), a landing shall be provided
a) at the top and bottom of each flight of interior and exterior stairs,
b) at the top and bottom of every section of ramp,
c) where a doorway opens onto a stair or ramp,
d) where a ramp opens onto a stair, and
e) where a stair opens onto a ramp.
3-146 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 3.4.6.5.
3.4.6.4.
3) A landing may be omitted at the bottom of an exterior stair or ramp, provided there is no gate, door or fixed obstruction within the lesser of
a) the width of the stair or ramp, or
b) 1 100 mm.
Dimensions of Landings
(See Note A-3.4.6.4.)
1) Except as provided in Sentence (2), a landing shall be at least as wide and as long as the width of the stairway in which it occurs.
2) In a straight stairway and in a stairway that turns less than 90°, the length of the landing need not be more than the lesser of
a) the required width of stair, or
b) 1 100 mm.
3) The length of a landing shall be measured perpendicular to the nosing of adjacent steps, at a distance equal to half the length required in Sentence (2), from the narrow edge of the landing.
4) Where a doorway or stairway empties onto a ramp through a side wall, there shall be a level area extending across the full width of the ramp, and for a distance of 300 mm on either side of the wall opening, except one side if it abuts on an end wall.
5) Where a doorway or stairway empties onto a ramp through an end wall, there shall be a level area extending across the full width of the ramp and along its length for not less than 900 mm.
Handrails
1) One handrail shall be provided on stairs that are less than 1 100 mm in width.
2) One handrail shall be provided on each side of
a) stairs that are 1 100 mm or more in width,
b) curved flights of any width, and
c) ramps.
3) In addition to Sentence (2), intermediate handrails shall be provided so that
a) a handrail is reachable within 750 mm of all portions of the required exit
width,
b) at least one portion of the stair or ramp between two handrails is the
minimum width required for stairways or ramps (see Sentences 3.4.3.2.(8)
and 3.4.3.3.(4)), and
c) all other portions of the stair or ramp between two handrails have a clear
width of 510 mm or more.
4) Where a stair or ramp is wider than its required exit width, handrails shall be located along the most direct path of travel. (See Note A-3.4.6.5.(4).)
5) Handrails shall be continuously graspable along their entire length, be free of any sharp or abrasive elements, and have
a) a circular cross-section with an outside diameter not less than 30 mm and not more than 43 mm, or
b) a non-circular cross-section with a perimeter not less than 100 mm and not more than 125 mm and whose largest cross-sectional dimension is not more than 45 mm.
6) The height of handrails on stairs, on aisles with steps and on ramps shall be measured vertically from the top of the handrail to
a) a straight line drawn tangent to the tread nosings of the stair or aisle step served by the handrail (see Note A-9.8.7.4.), or
b) the surface of the ramp, floor or landing served by the handrail.
7) Except as provided in Sentence (8) and Clause 3.8.3.5.(1)(e), the height of handrails on stairs, on aisles with steps and on ramps shall be
a) not less than 865 mm, and
b) not more than 1 070 mm.
3.4.6.5.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 3-147
  © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.4.6.6.
Division B
3.4.6.6.
8) Handrails installed in addition to required handrails need not comply with Sentence (7).
9) Required handrails shall be continuously graspable throughout the length of
a) a ramp, and
b) a flight of stairs, from the bottom riser to the top riser.
(See Note A-9.8.7.2.)
10) Except where interrupted by doorways, at least one handrail shall be continuous throughout the length of a stairway or ramp, including at landings. (See Note A-3.4.6.5.(10).)
11) Handrails shall be terminated in a manner that will not obstruct pedestrian travel or create a hazard. (See Note A-3.4.6.5.(10).)
12) At least one handrail at the side of a stairway or ramp shall extend horizontally not less than 300 mm beyond the top and bottom of the stairway or ramp. (See
Note A-3.4.6.5.(10).)
13) The clearance between a handrail and any surface behind it shall be not less than
a) 50 mm, or
b) 60 mm if the surface behind the handrail is rough or abrasive.
14) Handrails and their supports shall be designed and constructed to withstand the loading values specified in Sentence 4.1.5.14.(7).
15) A ramp shall have handrails on both sides. Guards
1) Every exit shall have a wall or a well-secured guard on each side, where
a) there is a difference in elevation of more than 600 mm between the walking
surface and the adjacent surface, or
b) the adjacent surface within 1.2 m of the walking surface has a slope of more
than 1 in 2.
(See Note A-9.8.8.1.)
2) Except as required by Sentence (4), the height of guards for exit stairs and exit ramps as well as their landings shall be not less than 1 070 mm.
3) The height of guards shall be measured vertically to the top of the guard from
a) a line drawn through the outside edges of the stair nosings, or
b) the surface of the ramp or landing.
4) The height of guards for exterior stairs and landings more than 10 m above adjacent ground level shall be not less than 1 500 mm measured vertically to the top of the guard from the surface of the landing or from a line drawn through the outside edges of the stair nosings.
5) Except as provided in Sentence 3.3.1.18.(3) and Articles 3.3.4.7. and 3.3.5.10., guards in exits shall not have any openings that permit the passage of a spherical object whose diameter is more than 100 mm.
6) In a stairway, a window for which the distance measured vertically between the bottom of the window and a line drawn through the outside edges of the stair nosings is less than 900 mm, or a window that extends to less than 1 070 mm above the landing, shall
a) be protected by a guard that is
i) locatedapproximately900mmabovealinedrawnthrough
the outside edges of the stair nosings, or
ii) not less than 1 070 mm high measured to the top of the
guard from the surface of the landing, or
b) be fixed in position and designed to resist the lateral design loads specified
for guards and walls in Articles 4.1.5.14. and 4.1.5.16.
7) Except for guards conforming to Article 3.3.5.10., guards that protect a level located more than one storey or 4.2 m above the adjacent level shall be designed so that no member, attachment or opening located between 140 mm and 900 mm above the level being protected by the guard facilitates climbing. (See Note A-9.8.8.6.(1).)
3-148 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
  © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 3.4.6.9.
3.4.6.7.
3.4.6.8.
Ramp Slope
(See also Article 3.8.3.5.)
1) Except as required for aisles by Article 3.3.2.5., the maximum slope of a ramp shall be
a) 1 in 10 in any assembly, care, treatment, detention or residential occupancy,
b) 1 in 6 in an industrial occupancy,
c) 1 in 8 in all other occupancies, and
d) 1 in 10 for an exterior ramp.
Treads and Risers
(See Note A-9.8.4.)
1) Except as permitted for dwelling units and by Sentence 3.4.7.5.(1) for fire escapes, steps for stairs shall have a run of not less than 280 mm between successive steps.
2) Steps for stairs referred to in Sentence (1) shall have a rise between successive treads not less than 125 mm and not more than 180 mm.
3) Except as provided in Article 3.3.4.7. and except for fire escape stairs, stairs that are principally used for maintenance and service, and stairs that serve industrial occupancies other than storage garages, steps for stairs shall have no open risers.
4) Except in fire escape stairs and where an exterior stair adjoins a walkway as permitted in Sentence 3.4.6.3.(3), risers, measured as the vertical nosing-to-nosing distance, shall be of uniform height in any one flight, with a maximum tolerance of
a) 5 mm between adjacent treads or landings, and
b) 10 mm between the tallest and shortest risers in a flight.
5) Except in fire escape stairs, treads shall have a uniform run with a maximum tolerance of
a) 5 mm between adjacent treads, and
b) 10 mm between the deepest and shallowest treads in a flight.
6) Treads and risers shall not differ significantly in run and rise in successive flights in any stair system.
7) The slope of treads or landings shall not exceed 1 in 50.
8) Except as permitted by Sentence (10), the top of the nosing of stair treads shall
have a rounded or beveled edge extending not less than 6 mm and not more than 13 mm measured horizontally from the front of the nosing.
9) The front edge of stair treads in exits and public access to exits shall be at right angles to the direction of exit travel.
10) If resilient material is used to cover the nosing of a stair tread, the minimum rounded or beveled edge required by Sentence (8) is permitted to be reduced to 3 mm.
Curved Flights in Exits
1) Exit stair flights shall consist solely of
a) straight flights, or
b) curved flights complying with Sentence (2).
2) A curved flight used as an exit shall have
a) a handrail on each side,
b) a minimum run of 240 mm,
c) a run that conforms to Article 3.4.6.8. when measured at a point 300 mm
from the centre line of the handrail at the narrow end of the tread, and
d) an inside radius that is not less than twice the stair width.
3) Tapered treads shall have a consistent angle and uniform run and rise dimensions in accordance with the construction tolerances stipulated in Article 3.4.6.8. when measured at a point 300 mm from the centre line of the handrail at the narrow end of the tread.
3.4.6.9.
4) All tapered treads within a flight shall turn in the same direction.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 3-149
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.4.6.10.
Division B
3.4.6.10.
Horizontal Exits
1) The floor area on each side of a horizontal exit shall be sufficient to accommodate the occupants of both floor areas, allowing not less than 0.5 m2 of clear floor space per person, except that 1.5 m2 shall be provided for each person in a wheelchair and 2.5 m2 for each bedridden patient.
2) If vestibules, enclosed balconies or bridges are used as parts of a horizontal exit, their clear width shall be not less than that of the exit doorways opening into them, except that handrails are not permitted to project into this clear width more than 100 mm.
3) In a horizontal exit where there is a difference in level between the connected floor areas, slopes not more than those specified for ramps in Article 3.4.6.7. are permitted to be used.
4) No stairs or steps shall be used in a horizontal exit.
5) If 2 doors are provided in a horizontal exit that comprises a part of the required
number of exits from the floor areas on both sides of the exit
a) the doors shall be mounted adjacent to each other with the door on the right side in the direction of travel through the horizontal exit swinging in the direction of travel through the horizontal exit, and
b) signs shall be provided on each side of the horizontal exit to indicate the door that swings in the direction of travel from that side.
(See Note A-3.4.6.10.(5).)
6) If a horizontal exit utilizes bridges between buildings or outside balconies, the bridges or balconies shall conform to Article 3.2.3.19.
Doors
1) The distance between a stair riser and the leading edge of a door during its
swing shall be not less than 300 mm.
2) Except as provided in Sentence (3) and where doorways are used to confine the spillage of flammable liquids within a service room or within a room in an industrial occupancy, a threshold for a doorway in an exit shall be not more than 13 mm higher than the surrounding finished floor surface.
3) Except for doors providing access to ground level as required by
Clause 3.3.1.7.(1)(d) and (e), an exit door is permitted to open onto not more than one step which shall be not more than 150 mm high where there is a risk of blockage by ice or snow.
4) Exit doors shall be clearly identifiable. (See Note A-3.4.6.11.(4).)
5) No door leaf in an exit doorway with more than one leaf shall be less than
610 mm wide.
6) Where an exit door leading directly to the outside is subject to being obstructed by parked vehicles or storage because of its location, a visible sign or a physical barrier prohibiting such obstructions shall be installed on the exterior side of the door.
Direction of Door Swing
1) Except for doors serving a single dwelling unit and except as permitted by Sentence (2) and Article 3.4.6.14., every exit door shall
a) open in the direction of exit travel, and
b) swing on its vertical axis.
2) Exit doors need not conform to Sentence (1), where
a) they serve storage garages serving not more than one dwelling unit,
b) they serve accessory buildings serving not more than one dwelling unit,
c) they
i) serve storage suites not more than 28 m2 in area that are on the first storey in warehousing buildings, and
ii) opendirectlyoutdoorsatgroundlevel,or
d) they serve individual self-service storage units referred to in Section 3.9.
3.4.6.11.
3.4.6.12.
3-150 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
  © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
3.4.6.16.
3.4.6.13.
3.4.6.14.
3.4.6.15.
Self-closing Devices
1) An exit door that is normally required to be kept closed
a) shall be provided with a self-closing mechanism, and
b) shall never be secured in an open position except as permitted by
Sentence 3.1.8.14.(1).
Sliding Doors
1) Except as permitted by Sentences (2) and 3.4.6.12.(2), an exit door leading directly to outdoors at ground level is permitted to be a sliding door provided it conforms to Sentence 3.3.1.12.(1).
2) An exit door serving a Group B, Division 1 occupancy, or an impeded egress zone in other occupancies, is permitted to be a sliding door that does not conform to Sentence 3.3.1.12.(1) provided it is designed to be released in conformance with Article 3.3.1.13.
Revolving Doors
1) Except as permitted by Sentence (3), a revolving door, if used, shall
a) be collapsible,
b) have hinged doors providing equivalent exiting capacity located adjacent
to it,
c) be used as an exit from the ground floor level only,
d) not be used at the foot of any stairway, and
e) have all glass in door leaves and enclosure panels conforming to
i) CAN/CGSB-12.1-M, “Tempered or Laminated Safety Glass,” or
ii) CAN/CGSB-12.11-M,“WiredSafetyGlass.”
2) Except as permitted by Sentence (3), a revolving door shall not be considered to have an exiting capacity for more than 45 persons.
3) An electrically powered revolving door is not required to conform to Sentences (1) and (2) provided
a) the door leaves will collapse and stop automatic rotation of the door system and not obstruct the doorway if a force not more than that specified in Sentence 3.4.6.16.(2) is applied at the centre of a door leaf,
b) the door leaves are capable of being opened from inside the building without requiring keys, special devices, or specialized knowledge of the door opening mechanism,
c) the allowable exiting capacity is based on the clear width of passage through the door enclosure when the doors are fully collapsed,
d) a permanent sign, whose centre line is between 1 000 mm and 1 500 mm above the floor, is placed on each face of each door leaf indicating the method for collapsing the door leaf in an emergency, and
e) glass used for door leaves and enclosure panels is safety glass conforming to
i) CAN/CGSB-12.1-M, “Tempered or Laminated Safety
Glass,” or
ii) CAN/CGSB-12.11-M,“WiredSafetyGlass.”
Door Release Hardware
1) Except for devices on doors serving a contained use area or an impeded egress zone designed to be remotely released in conformance with Article 3.3.1.13., and except
as permitted by Sentences (4) and (5) and Article 3.4.6.17., locking, latching and
other fastening devices on a principal entrance door to a building as well as those on every exit door shall include release hardware complying with Clause 3.8.3.8.(1)(b) to permit the door to be readily opened from the inside with not more than one releasing operation and without requiring keys, special devices or specialized knowledge of the door-opening mechanism. (See Note A-3.4.6.16.(1).)
3.4.6.16.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 3-151
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.4.6.16.
Division B
3-152 Division B
2) If a door is equipped with a latching mechanism, a device that will release the latch and allow the door to swing wide open when a force of not more than 90 N is applied to the device in the direction of travel to the exit shall be installed on
a) every exit door from a floor area containing an assembly occupancy having an occupant load more than 100,
b) every door leading to an exit lobby from an exit stair shaft, and every exterior door leading from an exit stair shaft in a building having an occupant load more than 100, and
c) every exit door from a floor area containing a high-hazard industrial occupancy.
3) Except as required by Sentence 3.8.3.6.(8), every exit door shall be designed and installed so that, when the latch is released, the door will open under a force of not more than 90 N, applied at the knob or other latch releasing device.
4) Electromagnetic locks that do not incorporate latches, pins or other similar devices to keep the door in the closed position are permitted to be installed on doors, other than those leading directly from a high-hazard industrial occupancy, provided
a) the building is equipped with a fire alarm system,
b) the locking device releases upon actuation of the alarm signal from the
building’s fire alarm system,
c) the locking device releases immediately upon loss of power controlling the
electromagnetic locking mechanism and its associated auxiliary controls,
d) except for locking devices installed in conformance with Sentence (5), the
locking device releases immediately upon actuation of a manually operated
switch readily accessible only to authorized personnel,
e) except as provided in Clause (k) and Sentence (6), a force of not more than
90 N applied to the door opening hardware initiates an irreversible process that will release the locking device within 15 s and not re-lock until the door has been opened,
f) upon release, the locking device must be reset manually by the actuation of the switch referred to in Clause (d),
g) a legible sign is permanently mounted on the door to indicate that the locking device will release within 15 s of applying pressure to the door-opening hardware,
h) the total time delay for all electromagnetic locks in any path of egress to release is not more than 15 s,
i) where a bypass switch is installed to allow testing of the fire alarm system, actuation of the switch
i) can prevent the release of the locking device by the fire alarm system, as stated in Clause (b), during the test, and
ii) causes an audible and visual signal to be indicated at the
fire alarm annunciator panel required by Article 3.2.4.9. and
at the monitoring station specified in Sentence 3.2.4.8.(4),
j) emergency lighting is provided at each door, and
k) where they are installed on doors providing emergency crossover access to floor areas from exit stairs in accordance with Article 3.4.6.18.,
i) thelockingdevicereleasesimmediatelyupontheoperation of a manual station for the fire alarm system located on the wall on the exit stair side not more than 600 mm from the door, and
ii) alegiblesignwiththewords“re-entrydoorunlockedby fire alarm” written in letters at least 25 mm high with a stroke of at least 5 mm is permanently mounted on the door on the exit stair side.
(See Note A-3.4.6.16.(4).)
5) Electromagnetic locks that do not incorporate latches, pins or other similar devices to keep the door in the closed position located in the parts of the floor area arranged according to Sentences 3.3.3.5.(2) to (13) are permitted to be installed on doors in Group B, Division 2 and Division 3 occupancies, provided
a) the building is
i) equipped with a fire alarm system, and
ii) sprinklered, Division B
3.4.6.17.
3.4.6.17.
b)
c) d)
e)
f)
(See Note A-3.4.6.16.(5).)
6) The actuation of the unlocking device provided for in Clause 3.4.6.16.(4)(e) may be delayed not more than 3 s, within the maximum time of 15 s to open only one door of a means of egress, provided a visual sign informs occupants that they must press
on the opening hardware for at least 3 s.
7) The lock installed on the door of the main entry of a residential building with a number of suites shall be equipped with a mechanism
a) allowing its automatic unlocking at the actuation of an alarm signal, and
b) designed such as the door remains unlocked throughout the time the alarm
signal sounds in the building.
8) Locking devices permitted under Sentences (4) and (5) shall conform to the test requirements prescribed in CAN/ULC-S533, “Egress Door Securing and Releasing Devices.”
9) Door hardware for the operation of the doors referred to in this Section shall be installed at a height not more than 1 200 mm above the finished floor.
Security for Banks and Mercantile Floor Areas
1) If a building is sprinklered throughout, the requirements of Sentence 3.4.6.16.(1) are permitted to be waived for exit and egress doors complying with Sentences (2) to (9) that serve a floor area or part of a floor area used exclusively for
a) a bank, or
b) the sale of retail merchandise.
(See Note A-3.4.6.17.(1).)
2) Exit and egress doors referred to in Sentence (1) shall be designed to prevent locking at any time that the part of the floor area that they serve is open to the public.
3) A sign with the words “This door shall not be locked at any time that the public is present” in letters not less than 50 mm high shall be permanently affixed to both sides of doors referred to in Sentence (1).
4) Exit and egress facilities complying with Sentences (5) to (9) shall be incorporated for egress by persons other than the public from a floor area or a part of a floor area referred to in Sentence (1) during times when the public is neither present nor being admitted to the area that they serve.
the electromagnetic lock releases upon
i) actuation of the alarm signal from the building’s fire alarm
system,
ii) loss of its power supply and of power to its auxiliary
controls,
iii) actuation of a manually operated switch that is readily
accessible at a constantly attended location within the
locked space, and
iv) actuation of the manual station installed within 0.5 m of
each door and equipped with an auxiliary contact, which
directly releases the electromagnetic lock,
upon release, the electromagnetic lock requires manual resetting by actuation of the switch referred to in Subclause (b)(iii),
a legible sign with the words “IN CASE OF FIRE, THIS DOOR MAY BE OPENED BY ACTIVATING THE MANUAL PULL STATION LOCATED” (on the left or the right depending on the location of the station) written in letters at least 25 mm high with a stroke at least 5 mm wide is permanently mounted on the door,
the operation of any by-pass switch, where provided for testing of the
fire alarm system, sets off an audible signal and a visual signal at the
fire alarm annunciator panel and at the monitoring station referred to in Sentence 3.2.4.7.(4), and
emergency lighting is provided at the doors.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 3-153
  © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022
 3.4.6.18.
Division B
3.4.6.18.
5) In exit and egress facilities referred to in Sentence (4), at least one door at each exit and egress location shall
a) be operable in conformance with Sentence 3.4.6.16.(1), or
b) be equipped with locks conforming to Sentence 3.4.6.16.(4) that release
immediately
i) ifanalertsignaloralarmsignalisinitiatedinthefirealarm
system, or
ii) the sprinkler system is actuated.
6) A door referred to in Sentence (5) shall be permanently and distinctly marked to indicate that it is an emergency exit.
7) Exit and egress facilities required for evacuation of persons other than the public from a floor area or a part of a floor area referred to in Sentence (1) shall have an aggregate width based on the maximum number of persons other than the public and determined in accordance with Articles 3.4.3.1. to 3.4.3.3.
8) Travel distance to an exit referred to in Sentence (7) shall not exceed the travel distance determined in accordance with Subsection 3.4.2.
9) Exit and egress doors serving a floor area or part of a floor area referred to in Sentence (1) are permitted to be equipped with locks that require keys, special devices or specialized knowledge of the door opening mechanism provided
a) the doors do not lead into exit stairs,
b) the doors do not lead from exit stairs to the exterior of the building,
c) the doors do not serve any other occupancy,
d) the area served contains at least one telephone
i) thatisaccessibleandinoperationatalltimes, ii) that is not coin or card operated, and
iii) markedtoindicatethatitisforemergencyuse,
e) the area served is illuminated by normal power or by emergency power
when the doors are locked,
f) there are provisions that enable an announcement to be made throughout
the area served before the locks are fastened, and
g) the locks are designed for use during times that the building is not occupied.
Emergency Crossover Access to Floor Areas
1) Except as permitted in Sentence (2), doors providing access to floor areas from exit stairs shall not have locking devices to prevent entry into any floor area from which the travel distance up or down to an unlocked door is more than 2 storeys.
2) Doors referred to in Sentence (1) are permitted to be equipped with electromagnetic locks, provided they comply with Sentences 3.4.6.16.(4) and (5).
3.4.6.19.
be possible for a person entering the floor area to have access through unlocked Floor Numbering
3-154 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
3)
side to
4)
a) b)
5)
Doors referred to in Sentence (1) shall be identified by a sign on the stairway indicate that they are openable from that side.
Locked doors intended to prevent entry into a floor area from an exit stair shall be identified by a sign on the stairway side to indicate the location of the nearest unlocked door in each direction of travel, and
be openable with a master key that fits all locking devices and is kept
in a designated location accessible to firefighters or be provided with a wired glass panel not less than 0.0645 m2 in area and located not more than 300 mm from the door opening hardware.
Where access to floor areas through unlocked doors is required by Sentence (1),
it shall
doors within the floor area to at least one other exit.
1) Arabic numerals indicating the assigned floor number shall
a) be mounted permanently on the stair side of the wall at the latch side of
doors to exit stair shafts,
b) be not less than 60 mm high, raised approximately 0.7 mm above the surface,
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
3.4.7.5.
3.4.7. 3.4.7.1.
3.4.7.2.
3.4.7.3.
3.4.7.4.
Fire Escapes Scope
1) Except as permitted by Sentence (2), fire escapes shall not be erected on a building.
2) If it is impracticable to provide one or more of the exit facilities listed in Article 3.4.1.4., fire escapes conforming to Articles 3.4.7.2. to 3.4.7.7. are permitted to serve floor areas in an existing building provided the floor areas served are not more than
a) 2 storeys above ground level in care, treatment or detention occupancies, and
b) 5 storeys above ground level in other occupancies.
Fire Escape Construction
1) Fire escapes shall be of metal or concrete, of the stair type extending to ground level, constructed throughout in a strong substantial manner and securely fixed to the building, except that wooden fire escapes are permitted to be used on buildings of combustible construction if all posts and brackets are not less than 89 mm in their least dimension and all other woodwork is not less than 38 mm in its least dimension.
Access to Fire Escapes
1) Access to fire escapes shall be from corridors through doors at floor level, except that access from a dwelling unit is permitted to be through a casement window having an unobstructed opening not less than 1 100 mm high by 550 mm wide with a sill height of not more than 900 mm above the inside floor.
2) The clear area of a fire escape balcony onto which a door opens, shall be not less than 1 m2.
Protection of Fire Escapes
1) If a fire escape serves any storey above the second, openings located in a zone described in Sentence (2), including access doorways in the exterior walls of the building to which the fire escape is attached, shall be protected by closures conforming to Subsection 3.1.8.
2) The zone referred to in Sentence (1) extends from any balcony, platform or stairway of a fire escape to a distance
a) 3 m horizontally,
b) 10 m below, or
c) 1.8 m above.
Stairs
1) Stairs shall be inclined at an angle of not more than 45° with the horizontal, and their steps shall have risers not more than 210 mm high and treads not less than 220 mm wide exclusive of nosing.
2) Stairway headroom shall be not less than 1 950 mm plus the height of one riser measured vertically above the nosing of any tread or platform.
3) The width of a fire escape shall conform to Articles 3.4.3.1. to 3.4.3.3., except that the width is permitted to be reduced to 550 mm provided the fire escape serves
a) not more than 3 storeys, and
b) not more than 15 persons.
4) If a flight of stairs leading to the ground at the foot of a fire escape is not fixed in position, it shall be held in the raised position without a latch or locking device, and shall be fitted with a counterbalancing device that will permit it to be easily and quickly brought into position for use.
3.4.7.5.
c) d)
be located 1 500 mm from the finished floor and not more than 300 mm from the door, and
be contrasting in colour with the surface to which they are applied (see Note A-3.4.6.19.(1)(d)).
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 3-155
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.4.7.6.
Division B
3.4.7.6.
Guards and Railings
1) The open sides of every platform, balcony and stairway forming part of a fire escape shall be protected by guards not less than 920 mm high measured vertically above the nosing of any tread or platform.
2) The top rail of a guard is permitted to serve as a handrail if it is free from obstructions which could break a handhold.
3) A wall handrail shall be installed if the fire escape is more than 550 mm wide.
4) Unless it can be shown that the size of openings that exceed this limit does not
present a hazard, there shall be no opening that permits the passage of a sphere whose diameter is more than 100 mm through a guard for a fire escape.
5) Unless it can be shown that the location and size of an opening do not present a hazard, a guard for a fire escape shall be designed so that no member, attachment or opening located between 140 mm and 900 mm above a platform or the nosing of any tread will facilitate climbing.
Landings
1) Platforms for a fire escape shall be provided in conformance with the
requirements for stair landings in Articles 3.4.6.3. and 3.4.6.4.
3.4.7.7.
Section 3.5. Vertical Transportation
3.5.1. 3.5.1.1.
3.5.1.2.
3.5.1.3.
3.5.2. 3.5.2.1.
General Scope
1) This Section applies to vertical transportation facilities installed in a building, including elevators, escalators, dumbwaiters and window cleaning.
2) Elevators in a building within the scope of Subsection 3.2.6. shall conform to Articles 3.2.6.4., 3.2.6.5. and 3.2.6.6.
Storeys Served
1) Where a building has an elevator, it shall serve all storeys, including the roof
containing a common terrace.
Elevator
1) Buildings having more than 4 storeys in building height shall be equipped with an
elevator.
Standards
Elevators, Escalators and Dumbwaiters
1) The design, construction, installation and alteration of every elevator, escalator and dumbwaiter shall conform to
a) provincial or territorial regulations or municipal bylaws, or
b) ASME A17.1/CSA B44, “Safety Code for Elevators and Escalators,” in the
absence of the regulations or bylaws referred to in Clause (a).
(See Note A-3.5.2.1.(1).)
2) Deleted.
3) Passenger elevators shall conform to Appendix E of ASME A17.1/CSA B44,
“Safety Code for Elevators and Escalators.”
3-156 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 3.5.3.3.
4) Notwithstanding the provisions of Chapter IV, Elevators and Other Elevating Devices, of the Construction Code (chapter B-1.1, r. 2), every passenger elevator shall
a) have a voice synthesizer announcing the storeys served and installed in conformance with Appendix E of ASME A17.1/CSA B44, “Safety Code for Elevators and Escalators,”
b) conform to Subsection 3.5.4., and
c) if it is a destination-oriented elevator system, be equipped with a keypad
i) toentertheinformationonthedestinationusingatactile writing system with raised characters (braille), and
ii) locatedneartheelevatorssothatitiseasytoseethesignal and hear the audible signal of the elevators.
3.5.3. Fire Separations
3.5.3.1. Fire Separations for Hoistways of Elevators and Lifts for Persons with Physical Disabilities
1) Except as permitted by Sentence (2), a vertical service space used as a hoistway of an elevator or a lift for persons with physical disabilities shall be separated from all other portions of each adjacent storey by a fire separation having a fire-resistance rating conforming to Table 3.5.3.1. for the fire-resistance rating required by Subsection 3.2.2. for
a) the floor assembly above the storey, or
b) the floor assembly below the storey, if there is no floor assembly above.
Table 3.5.3.1.
Fire Separation for Vertical Transportation Space Forming Part of Articles 3.5.3.1.and 3.5.3.2.
3.5.3.2.
3.5.3.3.
Fire-Resistance Rating of Fire Separation Required for Floor Assembly
Minimum Fire-Resistance Rating of Vertical Service Space for Hoistway of Elevator and Lift for Persons with Physical Disabilities
45 min
45 min 1h 1h
1.5 h 1.5 h 2 h or more 2 h
2) Passenger elevators, other than those provided for firefighters in accordance with Article 3.2.6.5., or lifts for persons with physical disabilities are permitted to be located within interconnected floor space without being enclosed in a hoistway separated from the remainder of the building, provided the elevator or device machinery is located in a room separated from the remainder of the building by a fire separation having a fire-resistance rating not less than that required for hoistways by Sentence (1).
Vertical Service Spaces for Dumbwaiters
1) A vertical service space containing a dumbwaiter shall be separated from all other portions of each adjacent storey by a fire separation having a fire-resistance rating conforming to Table 3.5.3.1. for the fire-resistance rating required by Subsection 3.2.2. for
a) the floor assembly above the storey or
b) the floor assembly below the storey, if there is no floor assembly above.
Fire Separations for Machine Rooms of Elevators or Lifts for Persons with Physical Disabilities
1) Except as permitted by Sentence (2), a room containing machinery of an elevator or a lift for persons with physical disabilities shall be separated from all other parts of the building by a fire separation having a fire-resistance rating not less than that required for the vertical service space containing the elevator hoistway.
less than 45 min 45 min
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 3-157
    © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.5.4.1.
Division B
3.5.4. 3.5.4.1.
2) A room containing machinery of an elevator or a lift for persons with physical disabilities need not be separated from the elevator hoistway that it serves provided the room and the hoistway are separated from all other parts of the building by a fire separation having a fire-resistance rating not less than that required for the vertical service space containing the elevator hoistway.
Dimensions and Signs Elevator Car Dimensions
1) Except as permitted in Sentence (3), if one or more elevators are provided in a building, all storeys shall be served by at least one elevator which has inside dimensions that will accommodate and provide adequate access for a patient stretcher 2 010 mm long and 610 mm wide in the prone position. (See Note A-3.5.4.1.(1).)
2) An elevator satisfying the requirements of Sentence (1) shall be clearly identified on the main entrance level of the building.
3) An elevator serving a building not more than 3 storeys and not more than 600 m2 is permitted to have dimensions that are less than the dimensions in Sentence (1) but not less than the dimensions required in Appendix E of ASME A17.1/CSA B44, “Safety Code for Elevators and Escalators,” provided it
a) serves an occupancy other than a Group B, Division 2 occupancy, and
b) is not referred to in Article 3.3.1.7.
Floor Numbering
1) Arabic numerals indicating the assigned floor number shall be mounted permanently on both jambs of passenger elevator hoistway entrances in conformance with Appendix E of ASME A17.1/CSA B44, “Safety Code for Elevators and Escalators.”
Window-Cleaning Systems Referenced Standards
1) Every window-cleaning system shall conform to
a) CAN/CSA-Z91, “Health and Safety Code for Suspended Equipment
Operations,” and
b) CAN/CSA-Z271, “Safety Code for Suspended Elevating Platforms.”
3.5.4.2.
3.5.5. 3.5.5.1.
Section 3.6. Service Facilities
3.6.1. 3.6.1.1.
3.6.1.2.
3.6.1.3.
General Scope
1) The provisions of this Section apply to horizontal service spaces, vertical service spaces, attic or roof spaces, ducts, crawl spaces, shaft spaces, service rooms, and mechanical penthouses, and facilities contained therein.
Electrical Wiring and Equipment
1) The installation of electrical wiring and electrical equipment shall conform to the requirements of
a) provincial or territorial regulations or municipal bylaws, or
b) CSA C22.1, “Canadian Electrical Code, Part I,” in the absence of the
regulations or bylaws referred to in Clause (a).
Lightning Protection Systems
1) A lightning protection system, when provided, shall conform to the
requirements of the appropriate provincial or territorial legislation or, in the absence
3-158 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
   © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 3.6.2.1.
3.6.1.4.
3.6.1.5.
of such legislation, to CAN/CSA-B72-M, “Installation Code for Lightning Protection Systems.”
Storage Use Prohibition
1) Service spaces shall not be designed to facilitate subsequent use as storage space.
Appliances Installed outside a Building
1) A fuel-fired appliance installed on the roof of a building or in another location outside the building shall be installed not less than
a) 1.2 m from a property line, measured horizontally, and
b) 3 m from an adjacent wall of the same building if that wall contains any opening within 3 storeys above and 5 m horizontally from the appliance,
unless every opening within these limits is protected by
i) aclosurehavingafire-protectionratingnotlessthan45min
determined in accordance with Article 3.1.8.4., or
ii) awiredglassassemblypermittedforuseinaverticalfire
separation and described in D-2.3.15. in Appendix D.
Service Rooms
Fire Separations around Service Rooms
1) Except as permitted by Sentences (2), (8), (9) and (10), fuel-fired appliances shall be installed in service rooms separated from the remainder of the building by fire separations having a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h.
2) Except as required by Sentence (3), a fuel-fired appliance that serves only one room or suite is not required to be installed in a service room separated from the remainder of the building.
3) A solid-fuel-burning appliance shall not be located in a repair garage, a storage garage, or any other location where it could be exposed to flammable vapours or gases, unless
a) it is enclosed in a service room that is separated from the remainder of the building by a fire separation having a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h,
b) it is supplied with combustion air directly from outside the building, and
c) the heat that it generates is supplied indirectly to the space served by means of ducts or piping.
4) A service room containing an incinerator shall be separated from the remainder of the building by a fire separation having a fire-resistance rating not less than 2 h.
5) Equipment that uses a liquid having a flash point below 93.3°C shall be installed in a service room separated from the remainder of the building by a fire separation having a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h.
6) Electrical equipment that is required to be located in a service room according to CSA C22.1, “Canadian Electrical Code, Part I,” shall be installed in a service room separated from the remainder of the building by a fire separation having a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h.
7) Except as permitted by Sentence (8), in a storey that is not sprinklered throughout, a service room that contains service equipment other than that addressed by Sentences (1) to (6) shall be separated from the remainder of the building by a fire separation having a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h.
8) Where a service room contains a limited quantity of service equipment, and the service equipment neither constitutes a fire hazard nor is essential to the operation of fire safety systems in the building, the requirements for a fire separation shall not apply.
9) A fire separation is not required between a fireplace and the space it serves.
10) A fire separation is not required between a roof-top appliance and the building
it serves.
3.6.2. 3.6.2.1.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 3-159
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.6.2.2.
Division B
3.6.2.2.
3.6.2.3.
3.6.2.4.
3.6.2.5.
3.6.2.6.
3.6.2.7.
Service Rooms under Exits
1) A service room containing service equipment subject to possible explosion, such as boilers operating in excess of 100 kPa (gauge) and some types of refrigerating machinery and transformers, shall not be located directly under a required exit.
Service Equipment
1) A service room containing space heating, space cooling and service water heating appliances is permitted to contain other service equipment such as electrical service equipment.
Incinerator Rooms
1) A service room containing an incinerator shall not contain other fuel-fired
appliances.
Combustible Refuse Storage
1) Except as required by Sentence 3.6.3.3.(10), a room for the storage of combustible refuse shall be
a) separated from the remainder of the building by a fire separation with a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h, and
b) sprinklered.
(See Note A-3.6.2.5.(1).)
Door Swing for Service Rooms
1) A swing-type door from a service room containing a boiler or incinerator shall swing outward from the room, except that the door shall swing inward if the door opens onto a corridor or any room used for an assembly occupancy. (See also Sentence 3.4.4.4.(7).)
Electrical Equipment Vaults
1) An electrical equipment vault shall conform to Sentences (2) to (8) if it is required by
a) provincial or territorial regulations or municipal bylaws, or
b) CSA C22.1, “Canadian Electrical Code, Part I,” in the absence of the
regulations or bylaws referred to in Clause (a).
2) An electrical equipment vault referred to in Sentence (1) shall be separated from the remainder of the building by a fire separation of solid masonry or concrete construction having a fire-resistance rating not less than
a) 3 h if the vault is not protected by an automatic fire extinguishing system, or
b) 2 h if the vault is protected by an automatic fire extinguishing system.
3) If a building is sprinklered throughout, an electrical equipment vault referred to in Sentence (1) need not be sprinklered provided
a) the vault is designed for no purpose other than to contain the electrical equipment, and
b) the vault contains a smoke detector which will actuate the building fire alarm system in the event of a fire in the vault.
4) Only pipes or ducts necessary for fire protection or the proper operation of the electrical installation shall penetrate the fire separation referred to in Sentence (2).
5) Explosion-relief devices and vents or other protective measures conforming to Sentence 3.3.1.20.(3) shall be provided for an electrical equipment vault referred to in Sentence (1) that contains dielectric-liquid-filled electrical equipment. (See Note A-3.6.2.7.(5).)
6) An electrical equipment vault referred to in Sentence (1) shall be provided with a ventilation system designed in conformance with Part 6 to prevent the ambient temperature in the vault from exceeding 40°C.
3-160 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 3.6.3.1.
3.6.2.8.
7) The ventilation system required by Sentence (6) shall be separate from the system for the remainder of the building and shall be designed so that it is automatically shut off in the event of a fire in the vault.
8) The floor of an electrical equipment vault referred to in Sentence (1) shall be liquid tight and surrounded by liquid tight walls and sills of sufficient height to confine within the vault all of the liquid from the largest item of electrical equipment, but to a height of not less than 100 mm.
9) Electrical equipment vaults shall be secured against unauthorized entry. Emergency Power Installations
1) Where a generator intended to supply emergency power for lighting, fire safety and life safety systems is located in a building, except where such building is used solely for the purpose of housing the generator and its ancillary equipment, it shall
be located in a room that
a) is separated from the remainder of the building by a fire separation having a fire-resistance rating not less than 2 h, and
b) contains only the generating set and equipment related to the emergency power supply system.
2) Outdoor installation of a generator is permitted provided
a) the installation conforms to Article 3.6.1.5.,
b) the generator is protected from inclement weather and can operate during
extreme temperature events,
c) a minimum clearance of not less than 1 m is provided to enable maintenance
of the generator, and
d) where the generator is installed on the roof of a building,
i) the portion of the roof and its structural members supporting the installation have a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h, and
ii) under the generator and the adjoining tank, the roof membrane is covered with a noncombustible material that extends 300 mm beyond the edges.
Vertical Service Spaces and Service Facilities Fire Separations for Vertical Service Spaces
1) Except as provided in Sentence (6), Article 3.6.3.3. and Section 3.5., a vertical service space shall be separated from all other portions of each adjacent storey by a fire separation having a fire-resistance rating conforming to Table 3.6.3.1. for the fire-resistance rating required by Subsection 3.2.2. for
a) the floor assembly above the storey, or
b) the floor assembly below the storey, if there is no floor assembly above.
(See Note A-3.6.3.1.(1).)
Table 3.6.3.1.
Fire Separations for Vertical Service Spaces Forming Part of Sentence 3.6.3.1.(1)
3.6.3. 3.6.3.1.
Fire-Resistance Rating of Fire Separation Required for Floor Assembly
less than 45 min 45 min
1 h
1.5 h
2 h or more
Minimum Fire-Resistance Rating of Vertical Service Space
— 45 min 45 min 1 h 1 h
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division B
3-161
    © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.6.3.2.
Division B
3.6.3.2.
3.6.3.3.
2) Except as provided in Sentence (6), a vertical service space that does not extend through the roof of a building shall be enclosed at the top with construction having a fire-resistance rating not less than that required for the vertical service space walls.
3) Except as provided in Sentence (6), a vertical service space that does not extend to the bottom of a building shall be enclosed at the lowest level with construction having a fire-resistance rating not less than that required for the vertical service space walls.
4) A vent from a vertical service space not extending to the roof shall be enclosed within the building with construction having a fire-resistance rating not less than that required for the vertical service space walls.
5) Only openings that are necessary for the use of the vertical service space shall be permitted through a vertical service space enclosure.
6) Only one vertical service space is permitted to open into a service room located at either the top or bottom of the vertical service space provided
a) the vertical service space is separated from floor areas by a fire separation having a fire-resistance rating not less than that required for the floor assembly it passes through,
b) the service room is separated from the remainder of the building by fire separations with a fire-resistance rating not less than that required for the vertical service space opening into the service room,
c) the service room houses only equipment whose pipes, tubes, ducts and cables pass through the vertical service space opening into the service room, and
d) the service room does not house combustion or refrigeration appliances for which a fire separation is required under CSA B52, “Mechanical Refrigeration Code.”
Foamed Plastic Protection
1) Foamed plastic insulation in a vertical service space shall be protected in
conformance with Article 3.1.5.14.
Linen and Refuse Chutes
1) A linen chute or refuse chute shall
a) be impervious to moisture,
b) have a smooth internal surface,
c) be corrosion-resistant,
d) be constructed of noncombustible material, and
e) be located in a shaft in which there are no services other than noncombustible
drain, waste and vent piping or noncombustible water piping.
2) A shaft containing a linen chute or refuse chute shall have a fire-resistance rating conforming to Sentence 3.6.3.1.(1), but not less than
a) 1 h if the chute outlet for the discharge room is protected by an automatic, self-latching closure held open by a fusible link, or
b) 2 h if no closure is provided at the chute outlet into the discharge room.
3) An interior linen chute or refuse chute shall extend not less than 1 m above the roof and shall be vented above the roof with a vent which
a) has an unobstructed area not less than the cross-sectional area of the chute, and
b) is equipped with a cover that will open automatically, or that can be opened manually, in the event of a fire in the chute.
4) Intake openings for a linen chute or a refuse chute shall
a) have an area not more than 60% of the cross-sectional area of the chute, and
b) be fitted with closures designed to close automatically and latch after use.
5) Except as provided in Sentence (6), intake openings for a linen chute or a refuse chute shall be located in rooms or compartments that
a) have no dimension less than 750 mm,
b) are separated from the remainder of the building by a fire separation with a
fire-resistance rating not less than 45 min,
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
3-162 Division B
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
3.6.4.2.
3.6.3.4.
3.6.3.5.
3.6.4. 3.6.4.1.
3.6.4.2.
c) d)
are designed for no other purpose, and do not open directly into an exit.
In care occupancies and treatment occupancies, intake openings for a linen chute or a refuse chute are permitted to be located in rooms used exclusively to store materials used to collect refuse or laundry from the floor area provided the room
a) has a surface area not more than 35 m2,
b) is separated from the remainder of the building by a fire separation with a
fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h,
c) does not open into an exit, and
d) has a smoke detector connected to the building’s fire alarm system.
7) Sprinklers shall be installed at the top of each linen chute or refuse chute, at
alternate floor levels and in the room or bin into which the chute discharges.
8) The room into which a linen chute discharges shall be separated from the
remainder of the building by a fire separation with a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h. 9) A refuse chute shall be equipped at the top with spray equipment for
washing-down purposes.
10) A refuse chute shall discharge only into a room or bin separated from the
remainder of the building by a fire separation with a fire-resistance rating not less than 2 h.
11) The room or bin into which a refuse chute discharges shall be of sufficient size to contain the refuse between normal intervals of emptying, be impervious to moisture and be equipped with a water connection and floor drain for washing-down purposes.
12) A room into which a refuse chute discharges shall contain no service equipment that is not related to refuse handling and disposal.
Exhaust Duct Negative Pressure
1) If a vertical service space contains an exhaust duct that serves more than one fire compartment,
a) the duct shall have a fan located at or near the exhaust outlet to ensure that the duct is under negative pressure, and
b) the individual fire compartments shall not have individual fans that exhaust directly into the exhaust duct, unless the fans have a connection that extends upward at least 500 mm into the exhaust duct.
Deleted
Horizontal Service Spaces and Service Facilities Scope
1) This Subsection applies to horizontal service spaces and service facilities, including ceiling spaces, duct spaces, crawl spaces and attic or roof spaces.
Fire Separations for Horizontal Service Spaces
1) A horizontal service space that penetrates a required vertical fire separation shall be
separated from the remainder of the building it serves in conformance with Sentence (2).
2) If a horizontal service space or other concealed space is located above a required vertical fire separation other than a vertical shaft, this space need not be divided at the fire separation as required by Article 3.1.8.3. provided the construction between this space and the space below is a fire separation with a fire-resistance rating equivalent
to that required for the vertical fire separation, except that the fire-resistance rating is permitted to be not less than 30 min if the vertical fire separation is not required to have a fire-resistance rating more than 45 min. (See Note A-3.6.4.2.(2).)
6)
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 3-163
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.6.4.3.
Division B
3.6.4.3.
Plenum Requirements
1) A concealed space used as a plenum within a floor assembly or within a roof assembly need not conform to Sentence 3.1.5.18.(1) and Article 3.6.5.1., provided
a) all materials within the concealed space have a flame-spread rating not more than 25 and a smoke developed classification not more than 50, except for
i) tubing for pneumatic controls,
ii) optical fibre cables and electrical wires and cables with
combustible insulation, jackets or sheathes that are used for the transmission of voice, sound or data and conform to Sentences 3.1.4.3.(2) and 3.1.5.21.(2),
iii) totallyenclosednon-metallicracewayswithanFT6rating, when tested in accordance with Clause 3.1.5.23.(1)(a), in buildings required to be of noncombustible construction, and
iv) totallyenclosednon-metallicracewayswithanFT4rating, when tested in accordance with Clause 3.1.5.23.(1)(a), in buildings permitted to be of combustible construction, and
b) the supports for the ceiling membrane are of noncombustible material having a melting point not below 760°C.
2) If a concealed space referred to in Sentence (1) is used as a return-air plenum and incorporates a ceiling membrane that forms part of the required fire-resistance rating of the assembly, every opening through the membrane shall be protected by a fire stop flap that
a) stops the flow of air into the concealed space in the event of a fire,
b) is supported in a manner that will maintain the integrity of the ceiling
membrane for the duration of time required to provide the required
fire-resistance rating,
c) conforms to CAN/ULC-S112.2, “Fire Test of Ceiling Firestop Flap
Assemblies,” and
d) activates at a temperature approximately 30°C above the normal maximum
temperature that occurs in the return-air plenum, whether the air duct system is operating or shut down.
Attic or Roof Space Access
1) An attic or roof space more than 600 mm high shall be provided with access from the floor immediately below by a hatchway not less than 550 mm by 900 mm or by a stairway.
Horizontal Service Space Access
1) A horizontal service space, consisting of ceiling and duct spaces, which is more than 1 200 mm high and 600 mm wide shall have inspection doors not less than
300 mm in both horizontal and vertical dimensions placed so that the entire interior of the duct or space can be viewed.
Crawl Space Access
1) A crawl space shall have at least one access opening not less than 550 mm by
900 mm.
Air Duct and Plenum Systems Duct Materials
1) Except as permitted by Sentences (2) to (5) and Article 3.6.4.3., all ducts, duct connectors, associated fittings and plenums used in air duct systems shall be constructed of steel, aluminum alloy, copper, clay or other noncombustible material.
2) Except as permitted by Sentence (3), ducts, associated fittings and plenums are permitted to contain combustible material provided they
a) conform to the appropriate requirements for Class 1 duct materials in CAN/ULC-S110, “Test for Air Ducts,”
3.6.4.4.
3.6.4.5.
3.6.4.6.
3.6.5. 3.6.5.1.
3-164 Division B
Amended Page National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
3.6.5.4.
3.6.5.2.
3.6.5.3.
3.6.5.4.
b)
c) d)
e) f)
conform to Article 3.1.5.18. in a building required to be of noncombustible construction,
conform to Subsection 3.1.9.,
are used only in horizontal runs in a building required to be of noncombustible construction,
are not used in vertical runs serving more than 2 storeys in a building permitted to be of combustible construction, and
are not used in air duct systems in which the air temperature could be more than 120°C.
Combustible ducts which are part of a duct system conveying only ventilation air and are contained entirely within a dwelling unit need not comply with the requirements of Sentences (1) and (2).
4) Duct sealants shall have a flame-spread rating not more than 25 and a smoke developed classification not more than 50.
5) Duct connectors that contain combustible materials and that are used between ducts and air outlet units shall
a) conform to the appropriate requirements for Class 1 air duct materials in CAN/ULC-S110, “Test for Air Ducts,”
b) be not more than 4 m long,
c) be used only in horizontal runs, and
d) not penetrate a required fire separation.
Vibration Isolation Connectors
1) Except as permitted by Sentence (2), vibration isolation connectors in air duct systems shall be noncombustible.
2) Combustible fabric vibration isolation connectors are permitted provided they
a) are not more than 250 mm long,
b) comply with the flame-resistance requirements of CAN/ULC-S109, “Flame
Tests of Flame-Resistant Fabrics and Films,” and
c) are not used in a location where they are exposed to heated air or radiation
from heat sources that could cause the exposed surface temperature to be more than 120°C.
Tape
1) Tape used to seal joints in air ducts, plenums and other parts of air duct systems shall meet the flame-resistance requirements for fabric in CAN/ULC-S109, “Flame Tests of Flame-Resistant Fabrics and Films.”
Coverings, Linings, Adhesives and Insulation
1) Coverings, linings and associated adhesives and insulation for air ducts, plenums and other parts of air duct systems that would have an exposed surface temperature more than 120°C when exposed to heated air or radiation from heat sources shall be of noncombustible material.
2) Except as permitted by Sentence (3), combustible coverings and linings, including associated adhesives and insulation, shall have
a) a flame-spread rating not more than 25 on any exposed surface or any surface that would be exposed by cutting through the material in any direction, and
b) a smoke developed classification not more than 50.
3) The outer covering of ducts, plenums and other parts of air duct systems used
3)
within
a) an exposed surface flame-spread rating not more than 75, and
b) a smoke developed classification not more than 50.
an assembly of combustible construction is permitted to have
4) Combustible coverings and linings referred to in Sentences (2) and (3) shall not flame, glow, smoulder or smoke when tested in accordance with the method of test in ASTM C 411, “Hot-Surface Performance of High-Temperature Thermal Insulation,”
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 3-165
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.6.5.5.
Division B
3.6.5.5.
at the maximum temperature to which the coverings and linings are to be exposed in service.
5) Except as permitted by Sentence (6) and Sentence 3.1.5.7.(4), foamed plastic insulation shall not be used as part of an air duct system or for insulating an air duct.
6) Foamed plastic insulation is permitted to be installed in a ceiling space that is used as a return air plenum provided the foamed plastic insulation is protected from exposure to the plenum in accordance with Article 3.1.5.14. or Sentence 3.1.5.7.(4).
7) Combustible coverings and linings of ducts, including associated adhesives and insulation, shall be interrupted where the duct penetrates a fire separation and at the immediate area of operation of heat sources in a duct system, including electric resistance heaters or fuel-burning heaters or furnaces.
Insulation and Coverings
1) Insulation and coverings on pipes in which the temperature of the fluid exceeds 120°C shall
a) be made of noncombustible material, or
b) not flame, glow, smoulder or smoke when tested in accordance with ASTM
C 411, “Hot-Surface Performance of High-Temperature Thermal Insulation,” at the maximum temperature to which the insulation or covering is to be exposed in service.
2) Except as permitted by Sentence (5), where combustible insulation is used on piping in a horizontal service space or a vertical service space, the insulation and coverings on that piping shall have a flame-spread rating, on any exposed surface and on any surface that would be exposed by cutting through the material in any direction,
a) not more than 25 in a building required to be of noncombustible construction, or
b) not more than 75 in a building permitted to be of combustible construction.
3) Except as permitted by Sentence (5), insulation and coverings on piping located in rooms and spaces other than the service spaces described in Sentence (2) shall have a flame-spread rating not more than that required for the interior finish of the ceiling of the room or space.
4) Except as permitted by Sentence (5), combustible insulation and covering used on piping in a building within the scope of Subsection 3.2.6. shall have a smoke developed classification not more than 100.
5) No flame-spread rating or smoke developed classification limits are required for combustible insulation and coverings used on piping located within a
a) concealed space in a wall,
b) floor slab, or
c) noncombustible enclosure.
Clearance of Ducts and Plenums
1) The clearance of furnace plenums from combustible material shall conform to the requirements of the appropriate standards referenced in Sentence 6.2.1.5.(1).
2) If the plenum clearance required in accordance with Sentence (1) is not more than 75 mm, the clearance between a supply duct and combustible material shall be not less than
a) the required plenum clearance within a horizontal distance of 450 mm from the plenum, and
b) 12 mm at a horizontal distance of 450 mm or more from the plenum, except that this clearance is permitted to be reduced to zero beyond a bend or offset in the duct sufficiently large to shield the remainder of the supply duct from direct radiation from the furnace heat exchanger.
(See Note A-3.6.5.6.(2).)
3.6.5.6.
3-166 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 3.7.1.1.
3.6.5.7.
3.6.5.8.
3) If the plenum clearance required in accordance with Sentence (1) is more than 75 mm but not more than 150 mm, the clearance between a supply duct and combustible material shall be not less than
a) the required plenum clearance within a horizontal distance of 1 800 mm from the plenum, and
b) 12 mm at a horizontal distance of 1 800 mm or more from the plenum, except that this distance is permitted to be reduced to zero beyond a bend or offset in the duct sufficiently large to shield the remainder of the supply duct from direct radiation from the furnace heat exchanger.
(See Note A-3.6.5.6.(3).)
4) If the plenum clearance required in accordance with Sentence (1) is more than 150 mm, the clearance between a supply duct and combustible material shall be not less than
a) the required plenum clearance within a horizontal distance of 1 000 mm from the plenum,
b) 150 mm within a horizontal distance between 1 000 mm and 1 800 mm from the plenum, and
c) 25 mm at a horizontal distance of 1 800 mm or more from the plenum, except that this distance is permitted to be reduced to 8 mm beyond a bend or offset in the duct sufficiently large to shield the remainder of the supply duct from direct radiation from the furnace heat exchanger.
(See Note A-3.6.5.6.(4).)
5) If a register is installed in a floor directly over a pipeless furnace, a double-walled register box with not less than 100 mm between walls, or a register box with the warm-air passage completely surrounded by the cold-air passage, shall be permitted instead of the clearances listed in Sentences (2), (3) and (4).
Supply, Return, Intake and Exhaust-Air Openings
1) Combustible grilles, diffusers and other devices for supply, return, and exhaust-air openings in rooms shall conform to the flame-spread rating and smoke developed classification requirements for the interior finish of the surface on which they are installed.
Return-Air System
1) Except as required by Sentences (2) and (3), return ducts shall be constructed of
material having a flame-spread rating not more than 150.
2) If any part of a return duct will be exposed to radiation from the furnace heat exchanger or other radiating part within the furnace, that part of a return duct directly above or within 600 mm of the outside furnace casing shall be noncombustible.
3) Return ducts serving solid-fuel-burning furnaces shall be constructed of noncombustible material.
4) Combustible return ducts shall be lined with noncombustible material
a) below floor registers,
b) at the bottom of vertical ducts, and
c) under furnaces having a bottom return.
Section 3.7. Health Requirements
3.7.1. Height of Rooms 3.7.1.1. Room and Space Height
1) The height of every room and space shall be sufficient so that the ceiling or ceiling fixtures do not obstruct movement or activities below.
2) The unobstructed height in dwelling units shall conform to Subsection 9.5.3.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 3-167
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.7.2.1.
Division B
3.7.2. 3.7.2.1.
Plumbing Facilities Plumbing and Drainage Systems
1) Except as permitted in Sentence (2), if the installation of a sanitary drainage system is not possible because of the absence of a water supply, sanitary privies, chemical closets or other means for the disposal of human waste shall be provided.
2) Waterless urinals are permitted to be used in buildings provided with a water supply.
3) A compost toilet operating without water and effluent, drain, overflow or other types of discharge is permitted to be installed in an existing single-family home in accordance with Sentence 9.31.4.1.(2).
Water Closets
1) Except as permitted by Sentence (4), water closets shall be provided for each sex assuming that the occupant load is equally divided between males and females, unless the proportion of each sex expected in the building can be determined with reasonable accuracy. (See Note A-3.7.2.2.(1).)
2) If a single universal washroom is provided in accordance with the requirements of Section 3.8., the total number of persons in the building used to determine the number of water closets to be provided, is permitted to be reduced by 10 before applying Sentence (6), (7), (8), (12), (13) or (14).
3) If only one universal washroom is provided in accordance with Section 3.8., the water closet in this room may be considered in determining the number of water closets required by this Article.
4) Both sexes may be served by a single water closet if
a) the occupant load determined for one of the occupancies referred to in
Sentence (6), (10), (12), (13), (14) or (16) is not more than 10,
b) the total area used for an art gallery or a Group E occupancy, not including
storage areas, is not more than 250 m2,
c) the occupant load in a facility where courses are given or in a restaurant is
not more than 25, or
d) the number of children in a daycare centre is not more than 15.
5) Urinals are permitted to be substituted for two thirds of the number of water closets required by this Article for males, except that if only 2 water closets are required for males, one urinal is permitted to be substituted for one of the water closets.
6) Except as permitted by Sentences (4), (7) and (8), the number of water closets required for assembly occupancies shall conform to Table 3.7.2.2.-A.
Table 3.7.2.2.-A
Water Closets for an Assembly Occupancy Forming Part of Sentence 3.7.2.2.(6)
3.7.2.2.
3-168 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Number of Persons of Each Sex
Minimum Number of Water Closets
1-25 1 26 - 50 1 51 - 75 2 76 - 100 2
101 - 125 3 126 - 150 3 151 - 175 4 176 - 200 4 201 - 250 5
Male
Female
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9
     © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
3.7.2.2.
Number of Persons of Each Sex
251 - 300 301 - 350 351 - 400
Over 400
Minimum Number of Water Closets
Table 3.7.2.2.-A (Continued)
Male
5
6
6
7, plus 1 for each additional increment of 200 males in excess of 400
Female
10
11
12
13, plus 1 for each additional increment of 100 females in excess of 400
7) The number of water closets required for primary schools and daycare centres shall be at least one for each 30 males and one for each 25 females.
8) The number of water closets required for places of worship and undertaking premises shall be at least one for each 150 persons of each sex.
9) The number of water closets required for a treatment or detention occupancy shall be determined on the basis of the special needs of the occupancy.
10) Except as permitted by Sentences (4) and (7), the number of water closets required for a care or residential occupancy shall be at least one for each 10 persons of each sex.
11) At least one water closet shall be provided for each dwelling unit.
12) Except as permitted by Sentence (4), the number of water closets required for a
business and personal services occupancy shall conform to Table 3.7.2.2.-B.
Table 3.7.2.2.-B
Water Closets for a Business and Personal Services Occupancy Forming Part of Sentences 3.7.2.2.(12)and (16)
Number of Persons of Each Sex
1 - 25 26 - 50 Over 50
Minimum Number of Water Closets for Each Sex
1
2
3, plus 1 for each additional increment of 50 persons of each sex in excess of 50
13) Except as permitted by Sentences (4) and (16), the number of water closets required for a mercantile occupancy shall be at least one for each 300 males and one for each 150 females.
14) Except as permitted by Sentence (4), the number of water closets required for an industrial occupancy shall conform to Table 3.7.2.2.-C.
Table 3.7.2.2.-C
Water Closets for an Industrial Occupancy Forming Part of Sentence 3.7.2.2.(14)
Number of Persons of Each Sex
1 - 10 11 - 25 26 - 50 51 - 75 76 - 100
Over 100
Minimum Number of Water Closets for Each Sex
1
2
3
4
5
6, plus 1 for each additional increment of 30 persons of
each sex in excess of 100
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 3-169
          © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.7.2.3.
Division B
3.7.2.3.
15) Deleted.
16) The number of water closets required in a suite of mercantile occupancy whose area is not more than 600 m2 is permitted to be determined in accordance with Table 3.7.2.2.-B based solely on the total number of staff.
17) Except as permitted by Section 3.8. and Sentence (4), a water closet shall be installed
a) in each suite, or
b) elsewhere in the building if
i) the total number of water closets is determined in accordance with this Subsection and the water closets are located at not more than one storey above or below the storey containing the persons who require the fixtures, and
ii) the water closets are located at such a distance that no person is required to walk more than 90 m from the door of the suite in order to reach the facilities or room where the floor area does not contain a suite.
Lavatories
1) Except as permitted by Sentence (2), at least one lavatory shall be provided in a room containing one or 2 water closets or urinals, and at least one additional lavatory shall be provided for each additional 2 water closets or urinals.
2) Wash fountains in circular or linear form are permitted to be provided in lieu of lavatories required by Sentence (1) provided each 500 mm of circumference or each faucet is considered the equivalent of one lavatory.
3) Any shelf or projection above a lavatory shall be located so that it will not be a hazard.
4) Lavatories required by Sentence (1) shall be equipped with faucets that
a) comply with Clause 3.8.3.8.(1)(b),
b) does not require the application of continuous force to maintain water flow,
and
c) provide at least 10 s of continuous water flow.
Mobile Home Facilities
1) If mobile homes do not have individual sanitary facilities connected to a central
water supply and drainage system, a service building shall be provided for public use.
2) The service building required by Sentence (1) shall contain
a) at least one water closet for each sex if the service building facilities serve
not more than 10 mobile homes, and
b) an additional water closet for each sex for each additional 10 mobile homes.
3) If a service building is required by Sentence (1), it shall contain lavatories as required by Sentence 3.7.2.3.(1) and at least
a) one laundry tray or similar facility, and
b) one bathtub or shower for each sex.
Safety Glass
1) Glass, other than safety glass, shall not be used for a shower or bathtub
enclosure.
Surface Protection
1) Wall and floor surfaces below the uppermost surfaces of a urinal shall be protected from deterioration by impervious and durable material for a distance from the urinal to a point not less than 900 mm from the projected outline of the urinal on to the wall or floor.
3.7.2.4.
3.7.2.5.
3.7.2.6.
3-170 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
  © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 3.7.3.1.
3.7.2.7.
2) Floor surfaces around a water closet shall be protected from deterioration by an impervious and durable material for a distance not less than 900 mm from the projected outline of the water closet on the floor.
Floor Drain
1) A floor drain shall be installed in
a) rooms with more than 2 water closets, more than 2 urinals, or a combination
of over 2 of these fixtures,
b) refuse storage rooms, and
c) in a service room containing pumping, heating or air conditioning equipment or a compressor.
2) A cemented or paved floor or part of such floor that is below ground level shall have a floor drain in its lower part.
3) A paved garage attached or adjacent to a building shall be equipped with a sump or retention pit used as a floor drain.
4) A floor drain, a sump or a retention pit used as a floor drain shall be located in the room near a service water heater. (See Note A-3.7.2.7.(4).)
Grab Bars
1) Grab bars shall
a) be slip-resistant and free of any sharp or abrasive elements,
b) be mounted on surfaces that are free of any sharp or abrasive elements,
c) be able to resist a load of not less than 1.3 kN applied vertically or
horizontally,
d) be 30 mm to 40 mm in diameter, and
e) where mounted on a wall, have a clearance of 35 mm to 45 mm from the wall.
Bathtubs
1) Where a bathtub is installed in a hotel or a motel, it shall
a) have a clear floor space at least 750 mm wide along its length, except that a
water closet or a lavatory is permitted to encroach this space,
3.7.2.8.
3.7.2.9.
3.7.3. 3.7.3.1.
i) conform to Sentence 3.7.2.8.(1),
ii) are not less than 1 200 mm long located vertically at the
end of the bathtub that is adjacent to the clear floor space, with the lower end between 180 mm and 280 mm above the bathtub rim, and
iii) arenotlessthan1200mmlonglocatedhorizontallyalong the length of the bathtub at 180 mm to 280 mm above the bathtub rim, and
e) be clear along its full length with no tracks mounted on the bathtub rim.
Medical Gas Piping Systems Medical Gas Piping
1) If a non-flammable medical gas piping system is installed, it shall be installed in conformance with
a) CSA Z7396.1, “Medical Gas Pipeline Systems – Part 1: Pipelines for Medical Gases, Medical Vacuum, Medical Support Gases, and Anaesthetic Gas Scavenging Systems,”and
b) Part 3 of Division B of the NFC.
b) have
c) have
d) have
faucet and other controls that conform to Clause 3.8.3.8.(1)(b), a slip-resistant bottom surface,
grab bars that
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 3-171
   © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.7.4.1.
Division B
3.7.4. 3.7.4.1.
Windows Dwelling Units
1) The area of glazing in a dwelling unit shall conform to Article 9.7.2.3. Section 3.8. Accessibility
(See Note A-3.8.)
3.8.1. 3.8.1.1.
3.8.2. 3.8.2.1.
3.8.2.2.
Scope
Scope
1) This Section is concerned with the barrier-free design of buildings.
2) Buildings and facilities required to be barrier-free in accordance with
Subsection 3.8.2. shall be designed in accordance with Subsections 3.8.3. and 3.8.6. and any of Subsections 3.8.4. or 3.8.5.
Application Exceptions
(See Note A-3.8.2.1.)
1) The requirements of this Section apply to all buildings except
a) detached houses, semi-detached houses, houses with a secondary suite,
duplexes, triplexes, townhouses, row houses and rooming houses having
less than 10 rooms (see Note A-1.4.1.2.(1) of Division A, Secondary Suite),
b) buildings of Group F, Division 1 major occupancy, and
c) buildings that are not intended to be occupied on a daily or full-time basis, including automatic telephone exchanges, pumphouses and substations.
Entrances
(See Note A-3.8.2.2.)
1) In addition to the barrier-free entrances required by Sentence (2), not less than 50% of the pedestrian entrances, including the main entrance, except service entrances, of a building referred to in Sentence 3.8.2.1.(1) shall be barrier-free and shall lead from
a) the outdoors at sidewalk level, or
b) a ramp that complies with Subsection 3.8.3. and leads from a sidewalk.
2) A suite of assembly occupancy, business and personal services occupancy or mercantile occupancy that is located in the first storey of a building, or in a storey to which a barrier-free path of travel is provided, and that is completely separated from the remainder of the building so that there is no access to the remainder of the building, shall have at least one barrier-free entrance.
3) A barrier-free entrance required by Sentence (1) or (2) shall be designed in accordance with Subsection 3.8.3.
4) At a barrier-free entrance that includes more than one doorway, only one of the doorways is required to be designed in accordance with Subsection 3.8.3.
5) If a walkway or pedestrian bridge connects two barrier-free storeys in different buildings, the path of travel from one storey to the other storey by means of the walkway or bridge shall be barrier-free.
Areas Requiring a Barrier-Free Path of Travel
(See Note A-3.8.2.3.)
1) Except as permitted by Sentence (2), a barrier-free path of travel from the entrances required by Sentences 3.8.2.2.(1) and (2) to be barrier-free shall be provided throughout the entrance storey and within all other normally occupied floor areas
3.8.2.3.
3-172 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
  © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 3.8.2.4.
or common terraces served by a passenger elevator, escalator, inclined moving walk, or other lift for persons with physical disabilities or a ramp that conforms to Clause 3.4.6.7.(1)(a). (See Article 3.3.1.7. for additional requirements regarding floor areas above or below the first storey to which a barrier-free path of travel is required.)
2) A barrier-free path of travel for persons in wheelchairs is not required
a) to service rooms,
b) to elevator machine rooms,
c) to janitor ’s rooms,
d) to service spaces,
e) to crawl spaces,
f) to attic or roof spaces,
g) to floor levels not served by a passenger elevator, a lift for persons with
physical disabilities, an escalator, or an inclined moving walk or a ramp that
is required to conform to Clause 3.4.6.7.(1)(a),
h) to high-hazard industrial occupancies,
i) within portions of a floor area with fixed seats in an assembly occupancy where those portions are not part of the barrier-free path of travel to spaces designated for wheelchair use,
j) within floor levels of a suite of residential occupancy that are not at the same level as the entry level to the suite, except in a dwelling unit of a residential occupancy referred to in Article 3.8.2.13., where spaces referred to in Subsection 3.8.4. or 3.8.5. of the dwelling unit are located at a level other than the entry level to the dwelling unit (see Note A-3.8.2.3.(2)(j)),
k) within a dwelling unit of a care occupancy,
l) within those parts of a floor area that are not at the same level as the entry
level, provided amenities and uses provided on any raised or sunken level
are accessible on the entry level by means of a barrier-free path of travel,
m) within a hotel or motel suite of a residential occupancy not referred to in
Article 3.8.2.12., and
n) for spaces not referred to in Subsection 3.8.4. or 3.8.5. of a dwelling unit of a
residential occupancy referred to in Article 3.8.2.13.
3) In an assembly occupancy, the number of spaces designated for wheelchair use within rooms or areas with fixed seats shall conform to Table 3.8.2.3. (See also Article 3.8.3.21. for additional requirements.)
Table 3.8.2.3. Designated Wheelchair Spaces Forming Part of Sentence 3.8.2.3.(3)
Number of Fixed Seats in Seating Area
2 - 100 101 - 200 201 - 300 301 - 400 401 - 500 501 - 900
901 - 1 300 1 301 - 1 700
each increment of up to 400 seats in excess of 1 700
Number of Spaces Required for Wheelchairs
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
one additional space
3.8.2.4. Access to Storeys Served by Escalators and Moving Walks
1) In a building in which an escalator or inclined moving walk provides access to any floor level above or below the entrance floor level, an interior barrier-free path of travel shall also be provided to that floor level and be located not more than 45 m from the escalator or the inclined moving walk. (See Note A-3.8.2.4.(1).)
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 3-173
     © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.8.2.5.
Division B
3.8.2.5.
2) The route from the escalator or inclined moving walk to the barrier-free path of travel that leads from floor to floor as required by Sentence (1) shall be clearly indicated by appropriate signs.
Access to Parking Areas and Exterior Passenger-Loading Zones
1) A barrier-free path of travel shall be provided between an exterior parking area
and a barrier-free entrance referred to in Article 3.8.2.2. (See Note A-3.8.2.5.(1).)
2) Where a passenger elevator serves a building, a barrier-free path of travel shall be provided between at least one parking level and all other parts of the building required to be provided with barrier-free access in accordance with Subsection 3.8.3.
3) Exterior passenger-loading zones shall comply with Subsection 3.8.3.
4) Where a barrier-free path of travel is required, at least 1% of the parking spaces
and at least one space for a parking area of at least 25 places serving a building with a barrier-free access shall
a) conform to Subsection 3.8.3., and
b) be located, in the parking area as close as possible to the nearest barrier-free
entrance of the building.
Controls
1) Except as provided in Sentence 3.5.2.1.(3), controls for the operation of building services or safety devices, including electrical switches, thermostats, faucets, door hardware and intercom switches, that are located in a barrier-free path of travel shall comply with Subsection 3.8.3.
Power Door Operators
1) Except as provided in Sentences (2) and (3), every door that provides a barrier-free path of travel through an entrance referred to in Article 3.8.2.2., including the interior doors of a vestibule and a door leading from a barrier-free interior parking area to an elevator or a lift for persons with physical disabilities where provided, shall be equipped with a power door operator that complies with Subsection 3.8.3. and allows persons to activate the opening of the door from either side, where the entrance serves
a) a hotel,
b) a building of Group B, Division 2 or 3 major occupancy, or
c) a building of Group A, D or E major occupancy more than 600 m2 in building area.
2) The requirements of Sentence (1) do not apply to an individual suite having an area less than 500 m2 in a building having only suites of assembly, care, business and personal services or mercantile occupancy if the suite is completely separated from the remainder of the building so that there is no access to the remainder of the building.
3) Only the active leaf in a multiple leaf door in a barrier-free path of travel need conform to the requirements of this Article.
Plumbing Facilities
1) Except as permitted by Sentence (2), a washroom in a storey to which a barrier-free path of travel is required in accordance with Article 3.8.2.3., shall be barrier-free in accordance with Subsection 3.8.3. (See Note A-3.8.2.8.(1) to (4).)
2) A washroom need not conform to the requirements of Sentence (1) provided
a) it is located within a suite of residential occupancy or a dwelling unit of care
occupancy,
b) it is located in a suite not more than 250 m2 and other barrier-free washrooms
are provided on the same floor area within 45 m, or
c) it is located in an individual suite that is
i) usedforabusinessandpersonalservicesoccupancy,amercantile occupancy or an industrial occupancy,
3.8.2.6.
3.8.2.7.
3.8.2.8.
3-174 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
  © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
3.8.2.11.
3.8.2.9.
3.8.2.10.
ii) less than 250 m2 in area, and
iii) completely separated from, and without access to, the
remainder of the building. (See Note A-3.8.2.8.(1) to (4).)
3) In a building in which water closets are required in accordance with Subsection 3.7.2., at least one barrier-free water closet shall be provided in the entrance storey, unless
a) a barrier-free path of travel is provided to barrier-free water closets elsewhere in the building, or
b) the water closets required by Subsection 3.7.2. are for dwelling units only.
(See Note A-3.8.2.8.(1) to (4).)
4) A universal washroom conforming to Subsection 3.8.3. is permitted to be provided in lieu of facilities for persons with physical disabilities in washrooms used by the general public conforming to Subsection 3.8.3. (See Note A-3.8.2.8.(1) to (4).)
5) At least one water-closet stall or enclosure in a washroom required to be barrier-free shall comply with Subsection 3.8.3.
6) Where urinals are provided in a barrier-free washroom, at least one urinal shall comply with Subsection 3.8.3.
7) A barrier-free washroom shall be provided with a lavatory that complies with Subsection 3.8.3.
8) Where mirrors are provided in a barrier-free washroom, at least one mirror shall comply with Subsection 3.8.3.
9) Where drinking fountains are provided, at least one shall comply with Subsection 3.8.3.
10) Except within a dwelling unit of care occupancy or a suite of residential occupancy, where showers are provided in a building, at least one shower stall in each group of showers shall comply with Subsection 3.8.3.
11) Where a bathtub is installed in a suite of residential occupancy required to be barrier-free, and required by Article 3.8.2.12., it shall comply with Subsection 3.8.3.
Assistive Listening Devices
1) In a building of assembly occupancy, all classrooms, auditoria, meeting rooms and theatres with an area of more than 100 m2 shall be equipped with an assistive listening system complying with Subsection 3.8.3.
Signs and Indicators
1) Signs complying with Subsection 3.8.3. shall be installed to indicate the location
of
a) barrier-free entrances,
b) barrier-free washrooms,
c) barrier-free showers,
d) elevators or lifts for persons with disabilities,
e) barrier-free parking spaces, and
f) facilities for persons with hearing disabilities.
2) Where a washroom is not designed to accommodate persons with physical disabilities in a storey to which a barrier-free path of travel is required, signs shall be provided to indicate the location of barrier-free facilities.
Counters and Counters for Telephones
1) Every counter more than 2 m long at which the public is served shall comply
with Subsection 3.8.3. (See Note A-3.8.2.11.(1).) (See also Note A-3.8.2.3.)
2) Built-in shelves and counters provided for public telephones shall comply with Subsection 3.8.3.
3.8.2.11.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 3-175
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.8.2.12. Division B
3.8.2.12.
3.8.2.13.
3.8.3. 3.8.3.1.
Hotels and Motels
1) At least 10% of the suites of a hotel or motel shall be barrier-free and distributed
evenly between the storeys containing a barrier-free path of travel.
2) Barrier-free suites of a hotel or motel required in Sentence (1) shall comply with
Subsection 3.8.6.
Dwelling Unit of Residential Occupancy
1) A dwelling unit of residential occupancy shall be minimally accessible or
adaptable. (See Note A-3.8.2.13.(1).)
2) The minimally accessible dwelling unit shall conform to Subsection 3.8.4.
3) The adaptable dwelling unit shall conform to Subsection 3.8.5.
Design
Design Standards
1) Buildings or parts thereof and facilities that are required to be barrier-free shall be designed in accordance with
a) this Subsection, or
b) the provisions of CSA B651, “Accessible Design for the Built Environment,”
3.8.3.2.
Barrier-Free Path of Travel
3-176 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
listed in Table 3.8.3.1., in their entirety. (See Note A-3.8.3.1.(1).)
Table 3.8.3.1. Barrier-free Design Provisions Forming Part of Sentence 3.8.3.1.(1)
Barrier-free Application (Code References)
Interior accessible routes (3.8.3.2.)
Exterior accessible routes (3.8.3.3.)
Parking areas and exterior passenger-loading zones (3.8.3.4.) Ramps (3.8.3.5.)
Doors and doorways (3.8.3.6.)
Lifts for persons with physical disabilities (3.8.3.7.)
Operating controls (3.8.3.8.)
Signage (3.8.3.9.)
Drinking fountains (3.8.3.10.)
Washroom facilities (3.8.3.11. to 3.8.3.15.)
Bathing facilities (3.8.3.16. and 3.8.3.17.)
Communication (3.8.3.18. and 3.8.3.20.)
Counters (3.8.3.19. and 3.8.3.20.)
Spaces in seating areas (3.8.3.21.)
Applicable CSA B651 Provisions
4.3 and 5.1
8.2.1 to 8.2.5 and 8.2.7
9.3, 9.4 and 9.5 and 3.8.3.4.(2)(c) of the NBC 5.3 and 5.5
5.2
5.6.2
4.2
4.5 and 9.4 and 3.8.3.9.(2) of the NBC 6.1
6.2 and 6.3
6.5
6.6
6.7.1
6.7.3
1) Except as required elsewhere in this Part or as permitted in
Subsection 3.8.4., 3.8.5. or 3.8.6. or Article 3.8.3.6. pertaining to doorways, a barrier-free path of travel shall
a) b)
have an unobstructed width of not less than 920 mm, and
have a manoeuvring area not less than 1 500 mm in diameter on each side of any door opening onto a suite referred to in Article 3.8.3.12.
     © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
3.8.3.5.
3.8.3.3.
3.8.3.4.
3.8.3.5.
Interior and exterior walking surfaces that are within a barrier-free path of travel
have no opening that will permit the passage of a sphere more than 13 mm in diameter,
have any elongated openings oriented approximately perpendicular to the direction of travel,
be stable, firm and slip-resistant,
have a cross slope no steeper than 1 in 50,
be beveled at a maximum slope of 1 in 2 at changes in level between 6 mm and 13 mm, and
be provided with sloped floors or ramps at changes in level more than
13 mm.
2)
shall a)
b)
c) d) e)
3) A barrier-free path of travel is permitted to include ramps, elevators or lifts for persons with physical disabilities to overcome a difference in level.
4) The width of a barrier-free path of travel that is more than 30 m long shall be increased to not less than 1 500 mm for a length of 1 500 mm at intervals not exceeding 30 m.
Exterior Walks
1) Exterior walks that form part of a barrier-free path of travel shall
a) have a slip-resistant, continuous and even surface,
b) be not less than 1 100 mm wide, and
c) have a level area conforming to Clause 3.8.3.5.(1)(c) adjacent to an entrance
doorway.
2) The width of a barrier-free path of travel that is more than 30 m long shall be increased to not less than 1 500 mm for a length of 2 000 mm at intervals not exceeding 30 m.
Parking Areas and Exterior Passenger-Loading Zones
1) If an exterior passenger-loading zone is provided, it shall have
a) an access aisle not less than 1 500 mm wide and 6 000 mm long adjacent and
parallel to the vehicle pull-up space,
b) a curb ramp, where there are curbs between the access aisle and the vehicle
pull-up space, and
c) a clear height of not less than 2 750 mm at the pull-up space and along the
vehicle access and egress routes.
2) Each barrier-free parking space shall
a) have a width not less than 2 400 mm,
b) have a side aisle not less than 1 500 mm, parallel to the entire length of the
space, indicated by contrasting marking; the aisle is permitted to be shared
by 2 parking spaces, and
c) have a clear height of not less than 2 300 mm at the pull-up space and along
the vehicle access and egress routes in the case of an indoor parking area.
Ramps
1) A ramp located in a barrier-free path of travel shall
a) have a clear width not less than 870 mm (see Note A-3.4.3.4.),
b) have a slope not more than 1 in 12 (see Note A-3.8.3.5.(1)(b)),
c) have a level area not less than 1 500 by 1 500 mm at the top and bottom and
at intermediate levels of a ramp leading to a door, so that on the latch side the level area extends not less than
i) 600 mm beyond the edge of the door opening where the door opens towards the ramp, or
ii) 300 mm beyond the edge of the door opening where the door opens away from the ramp,
(see Note A-3.8.3.5.(1)(c)),
f)
(See Note A-3.8.3.2.(2).)
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division B
3-177
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.8.3.6.
Division B
3.8.3.6.
d) have a level area not less than 1 200 mm long and at least the same width as the ramp
i) atintervalsnotmorethan9malongitslength,and
ii) wherethereisanabruptchangeinthedirectionoftheramp,
e) except as provided in Sentences (2) and (3), be equipped with handrails conforming to Article 3.4.6.5., except that they shall be not less than 865 mm and not more than 965 mm high, and
f) be equipped with guards conforming to Article 3.4.6.6.
2) Handrails installed in addition to required handrails need not comply with the
height requirements stated in Clause (1)(e).
3) The requirement for handrails in Clause (1)(e) need not apply to a ramp serving as an aisle for fixed seating.
4) The surfaces of ramps and landings shall
a) be hard or resilient where the ramp is steeper than 1 in 15 (see
Note A-3.8.3.5.(4)(a)),
b) have a cross slope no steeper than 1 in 50, and
c) where exposed to water, be designed to drain.
5) Ramps and landings not at grade or adjacent to a wall shall have edge protection consisting of
a) a curb not less than 75 mm high, or
b) a raised barrier or rail located not more than 100 mm from the ramp or
landing surface.
6) Floors or walks in a barrier-free path of travel having a slope steeper than 1 in 20 shall be designed as ramps.
Doorways and Doors
1) Except where stated otherwise, this Article applies to swinging and sliding
doors.
2) Every doorway that is located in a barrier-free path of travel shall have a clear width not less than 800 mm when the door is in the open position. (See Note A-3.8.3.6.(2).)
3) Doorways in a path of travel to at least one bathroom within a suite of residential occupancy shall have a clear width not less than 800 mm when the doors are open. (See Note A-3.8.3.6.(3).)
4) Door-operating devices shall
a) comply with Clause 3.8.3.8.(1)(b), and
b) be operable at a height between 900 mm and 1 100 mm above the floor.
(See Note A-3.8.3.6.(4).)
5) A threshold for a doorway referred to in Sentences (2) and (3) shall be beveled to facilitate the passage of wheelchairs and,
a) except as permitted by Clause (b), be not more than 13 mm higher than the finished flooring,
b) in the case of a threshold for a doorway giving access to a balcony, be not more than 75 mm higher than the finished flooring.
6) Power door operators required by Sentence 3.8.2.7.(1) shall a) activate automatically or through the use of controls that
i) arelocatedinabarrier-freepathoftravel,
ii) aremarkedwiththeInternationalSymbolofAccess,
iii) are located clear of the door swing and no more than 1 500 mm from that door swing,
iv) comply with Subclause 3.8.3.8.(1)(a)(ii),
3-178 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
   © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
3.8.3.7.
3.8.3.7.
(See Note A-3.8.3.6.(6) and (7).)
7) A power-assisted door shall not swing open into the path of travel or a corridor, whatever its width. (See Note A-3.8.3.6.(6) and (7).)
8) Except as provided in Sentence (9) and except for a door with a power door operator complying with Sentence (6), when unlatched, a door in a barrier-free path of travel shall open when the force applied to the handle, push plate or latch-releasing device is not more than
a) 38 N in the case of an exterior swinging door, b) 22 N in the case of an interior swinging door, or
c) 22 N in the case of a sliding door.
9) Sentence (8) does not apply to a door at the entrance to a dwelling unit, or where greater forces are required in order to close and latch the door against the prevailing difference in air pressure on opposite sides of the door. (See Note A-3.8.3.6.(9).)
10) Except for a door at the entrance to a dwelling unit, a closer for an interior door in a barrier-free path of travel shall have a closing period of not less than 3 s measured from when the door is in an open position of 70° to the doorway, to when the door reaches a point 75 mm from the closed position, measured from the leading edge of the latch side of the door. (See Note A-3.8.3.6.(10).)
11) Unless equipped with a power door operator complying with Sentence (6), a swinging door in a barrier-free path of travel shall have a clear space on the latch side extending the height of the doorway and not less than
a) 600 mm beyond the edge of the door opening if the door swings toward the approach side, and
b) 300 mm beyond the edge of the door opening if the door swings away from the approach side.
(See Note A-3.8.3.6.(11).)
12) A vestibule located in a barrier-free path of travel shall be arranged to allow the movement of wheelchairs between doors and shall provide a distance between 2 doors in series of not less than 1 200 mm plus the width of any door that swings into the space in the path of travel from one door to another.
13) Only the active leaf in a multiple-leaf door in a barrier-free path of travel need conform to the requirements of this Article.
14) Except as provided in Clauses 3.8.3.2.(1)(b) and 3.8.3.5.(1)(c) and Subsections 3.8.4. and 3.8.5., the floor surface on each side of a door in a barrier-free path of travel shall be level within a rectangular area
a) as wide as the door plus the clearance required on the latch side by Sentence (11), and
b) whose dimension perpendicular to the closed door is not less than the width of the barrier-free path of travel but need not exceed 1 500 mm.
Lifts for Persons with Physical Disabilities
1) Except as provided in Sentence (3), lifts for persons with physical disabilities, referred to in Article 3.8.2.3., shall conform to CSA B355, “Lifts for Persons with Physical Disabilities.” (See Note A-3.8.3.7.(1).)
b)
v) areoperablefromaheightbetween900mmand1100mm above the floor, and
vi) areoperablebytouchingorapproachinganypartoftheir surface with a fist, arm or foot, and
unless equipped with safety sensors,
i) fullyopenthedoorinnotlessthan3s,and
ii) require a force not more than 65 N to stop movement of the door.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 3-179
  © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.8.3.8.
Division B
3.8.3.8.
2) Every lift for persons with physical disabilities shall conform to the following requirements:
a) a staircase with protected sheath for wheelchairs is permitted to be installed in a staircase provided
i) the stairs are not used for exit,
ii) the stairs have a clear width conforming to Sections 3.3.
and 3.4. in addition to the width required for the deployed
device,
iii) no obstacle located less than 1 980 mm from the floor
encroaches on the clear width of the stairs, and
iv) the clear space of the stairs is separated from the space
required for the device and conforms to Sections 3.3.
and 3.4. with respect to required handrails,
b) a device with a vertical path shall have a platform not less than 800 mm by
1 500 mm allowing the presence of an accompanying person; in the case of a right angle exit model, the dimension of the platform shall be sufficient for a wheelchair to turn, and
c) the landing door of a device with a vertical path with closed sheath shall be motorized and designed in accordance with CSA B355, “Lifts for Persons with Physical Disabilities,” when an entrance door to the building must be equipped with a power door operator that complies with Subsection 3.8.2.
3) A stair chair lift conforming to CSA B355, “Lifts for Persons with Physical Disabilities,” is permitted to be installed inside a dwelling unit when the stairway has a clear width not less than 860 mm in addition to the width required for the deployed device. (See Note A-3.8.2.3.(2)(j).)
Controls
1) Controls described in this Section shall
a) where located in a barrier-free path of travel, and unless otherwise stated,
i) bemounted400mmto1200mmabovethefloor,
ii) beadjacenttoandcenteredoneitherthelengthorthewidth
of a clear floor space of 1 350 mm by 800 mm, and
b) be operable
i) withonehandinaclosedfistposition,withoutrequiring tight grasping, pinching with fingers, or twisting of the wrist, and
ii) unlessotherwisestated,withaforcenotmorethan22N.
Accessibility Signs
1) Signs required by Article 3.8.2.10. shall incorporate the International Symbol of Access or the International Symbol of Access for Hearing Loss and appropriate graphical or textual information that clearly indicates the type of facilities available. (See Note A-3.8.3.9.(1).)
2) Parking designed to be barrier-free shall be designated by a P-150-5 conforming to the specifications prescribed by the Minister of Transport in accordance with section 308 of the Highway Safety Code (chapter C-24.2). (See Note A-3.8.3.9.(2).)
Drinking Fountains
1) Drinking fountains required by Sentence 3.8.2.8.(9) shall
a) be located along a barrier-free path of travel,
b) have a minimum clear floor space of 800 mm by 1 350 mm in front of it,
c) where it has frontal access, provide a knee clearance in accordance with
Clause 3.8.3.15.(1)(d),
3.8.3.9.
3.8.3.10.
3-180 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
   © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
3.8.3.11.
3.8.3.11.
Water-Closet Stalls
1) Water-closet stalls and enclosures required by Sentence 3.8.2.8.(5) shall
a) benotlessthan1500mmwideby1500mmdeep,
b) have a clear floor space of 1 500 mm by 1 500 mm in front of the accessible
stall,
c) be equipped with a door that
i) can be latched from the inside with a mechanism conforming to Clause 3.8.3.8.(1)(b),
ii) is aligned with either the transfer space adjacent to the water closet or with a clear floor space not less than
1 500 mm by 1 500 mm within the stall,
iii) providesaclearopeningnotlessthan850mmwidewhen it is open,
iv) isself-closingsothat,whenatrest,thedoorisajarbynot more than 50 mm beyond the jamb,
v) swingsoutward,unlessanunobstructedareanotlessthan 1 200 mm in diameter is provided within the stall (see Note A-3.8.3.11.(1)(c)(v)),
vi) where the door swings outward, is provided with a horizontal, D-shaped, visually contrasting door pull not less than 140 mm long located on the inside such that its midpoint is 200 mm to 300 mm from the hinged side of the door and 800 mm to 1 000 mm above the floor (see Note A-3.8.3.11.(1)(c)(vi)), and
vii) is provided with a horizontal, D-shaped, visually contrasting door pull not less than 140 mm long located on the outside such that its midpoint is 120 mm to 220 mm from the latch side and 800 mm to 1 000 mm above the floor,
d) have a water closet located so that the distance between the centre line of the fixture and the wall on one side is 460 mm to 480 mm,
e) be equipped with an L-shaped grab bar that
i) ismountedonthesidewallclosesttothewatercloset,
ii) has horizontal and vertical components not less than 760 mm long mounted with the horizontal component 750 mm to 850 mm above the floor and the vertical component 150 mm in front of the water closet (see Note A-3.8.3.11.(1)(e)(ii)), and
iii) complies with Article 3.7.2.8.,
f) be equipped with either one grab bar at least 600 mm long and centred over
the water closet, or two grab bars at least 300 mm long and located either side of the flush valve, that
i) conform to Article 3.7.2.8.,
ii) are mounted on the rear wall, and
iii) aremountedatthesameheightasthegrabbarontheside wall or 100 mm above the top of the attached water tank, if applicable,
d)
e)
have a spout that
i) is located near the front of the unit, at a height between
750 mm and 915 mm above the floor, and
ii) directs water flow in a trajectory that is nearly parallel to
the front of the unit, at a height not less than 100 mm, and be equipped with controls that
i) activate automatically, or
ii) are located either on the front or on both sides of it and
comply with Clause 3.8.3.8.(1)(b).
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division B
3-181
  © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.8.3.12.
Division B
3.8.3.12.
Universal Washrooms
(See Note A-3.8.3.12.)
1) A universal washroom shall
a) be served by a barrier-free path of travel,
b) have a door complying with Article 3.8.3.6. that
i) has a latch-operating mechanism located 900 mm
to 1 000 mm above the floor that complies with
Clause 3.8.3.8.(1)(b) and is capable of being locked from the inside, and released from the outside in case of emergency, and
ii) ifitisanoutwardswingingdoorthatisnotself-closing,has a door pull not less than 140 mm long located on the inside so that its midpoint is not less than 200 mm and not more than 300 mm from the hinged side of the door and not less than 900 mm and not more than 1 000 mm above the floor (see Note A-3.8.3.11.(1)(c)(vi)),
c) have one lavatory conforming to Article 3.8.3.15.,
d) have one water closet conforming to Article 3.8.3.13. and
Clause 3.8.3.11.(1)(d), with a clear floor space at least 900 mm wide that is
parallel and adjacent to the open side of the water closet,
e) have grab bars conforming to Clauses 3.8.3.11.(1)(e) and (f),
f) have a coat hook conforming to Clause 3.8.3.11.(1)(g),
g) have a toilet paper dispenser conforming to Clause 3.8.3.11.(1)(h),
h) unless a counter is provided, have a shelf located not more than 1 200 mm above the floor, and
i) be designed to permit a wheelchair to turn in an open space not less than 1 500 mm in diameter.
Water Closets
1) A water closet for a person with physical disabilities shall
a) be equipped with a seat located 430 mm to 460 mm above the floor,
b) flush automatically or be equipped with a flushing control that
i) islocated500mmto900mmabovethefloor,
ii) islocatednomorethan350mmfromthetransferside,and
iii) complies with Clause 3.8.3.8.(1)(b),
c) be equipped with a seat lid or other back support, and
d) where it has a tank, have a securely attached tank top.
(See Note A-3.8.3.13.(1).)
Urinals
1) Urinals described in Sentence 3.8.2.8.(6) shall
a) be wall-mounted, with the rim located not more than 430 mm above the
floor,
b) be adjacent to an accessible route,
c) have a clear width of approach of 800 mm centred on the urinal and unobstructed by privacy screens,
d) have no step in front of it,
3.8.3.13.
3.8.3.14.
3-182 Division B
Amended Page National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
g) h)
be equipped with a coat hook mounted not more than 1 200 mm above the floor on a side wall and projecting not more than 50 mm from the wall, and be equipped with a toilet paper dispenser mounted on the side wall closest to the water closet such that
i) the bottom of the dispenser is 600 mm to 800 mm above the floor, and
ii) theclosestedgeofthedispenseris300mmfromthefront of the water closet.
     © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
3.8.3.16.
3.8.3.15.
Lavatories and Mirrors
1) Lavatories required by Sentence 3.8.2.8.(7) shall
a) be equipped with faucets complying with Sentence 3.7.2.3.(4),
b) be located so that the distance between the centre line of the lavatory and
any side wall is not less than 460 mm,
a rim height not more than 865 mm above the floor,
a clearance beneath the lavatory not less than
i) 760 mm wide,
ii) 735 mm high at the front edge,
iii) 685mmhighatapoint200mmbackfromthefrontedge,
and
iv) 230 mm high over the distance from a point 280 mm to a
point 430 mm back from the front edge,
(see Note A-3.8.3.15.(1)(d))
e) have insulated water supply and drain pipes where these pipes are exposed (see Note A-3.8.3.15.(1)(e)),
f) have a soap dispenser that i) is automatic, or
ii) complieswithClause3.8.3.8.(1)(b)andislocatednotmore than 1 100 mm above the floor, within 500 mm from the front of the lavatory (see Note A-3.8.3.15.(1)(f)), and
g) have a towel dispenser or other hand-drying equipment located close to the lavatory, not more than 1 200 mm above the floor in an area that is accessible to persons in wheelchairs.
2) Mirrors required by Sentence 3.8.2.8.(8) shall be
a) mounted with their bottom edge not more than 1 000 mm above the floor, or
b) fixed in an inclined position so as to be usable by a person in a wheelchair.
Showers
1) Showers required by Sentence 3.8.2.8.(10) shall
a) be not less than 1 500 mm wide and 900 mm deep,
b) have a clear floor space at the entrance to the shower that is not less than
900 mm deep and the same width as the shower, except that fixtures are permitted to project into that space provided they do not restrict access to the shower (see Note A-3.8.3.16.(1)(b)),
c) have no doors or curtains that obstruct the controls or the clear floor space at the entrance to the shower,
d) have a slip-resistant floor surface,
e) have a threshold not more than 13 mm higher than the finished floor, and
where it is higher than 6 mm, beveled to a slope no steeper than 1 in 2 (50%),
f) have 2 grab bars that
i) conform to Sentence 3.7.2.8.(1),
3.8.3.16.
e)
f)
have a flush control that i) is automatic, or
ii) complieswithClause3.8.3.8.(1)(b)andislocated900mmto 1 100 mm above the floor, and
have a vertically mounted grab bar installed on each side that i) complies with Article 3.7.2.8.,
ii) isnotlessthan600mmlong,withitscentreline1000mm above the floor, and
iii) is located not more than 380 mm from the centre line of the urinal.
c) have d) have
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Amended Page Division B 3-183
   © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.8.3.17.
Division B
3.8.3.17.
(see Note A-3.8.3.16.(1)(f)),
g) have a hinged seat that is not spring-loaded or a fixed seat with a smooth,
slip-resistant surface and no rough edges, the seat being i) notlessthan450mmwideand400mmdeep,
ii) mountedonthesamesidewallastheverticalgrabbar,at 460 mm to 480 mm above the floor, and
iii) designedtocarryaminimumloadof1.3kN,
h) be equipped with faucets and other controls that
i) comply with Clause 3.8.3.8.(1)(b),
ii) are mounted on the wall opposite the entrance to the
shower at not more than 1 200 mm above the floor and
within reach of the seat,
i) have a hand-held shower head with not less than 1 800 mm of flexible hose
located so that it
i) can be reached from a seated position,
ii) canbeusedinafixedpositionataheightof1200mmand 2 030 mm, and
iii) doesnotobstructtheuseofthegrabbars,and
j) have recessed soap holders that can be reached from the seated position.
Bathtubs
1) Bathtubs required by Sentence 3.8.2.8.(11) shall
a) be located in a room with a clear floor space not less than 1 500 mm in
diameter,
b) be not less than 1 500 mm long,
c) have a clear floor space not less than 750 mm wide adjacent to its entire length,
d) be capable of being accessed along its full length with no tracks or accessories mounted on its rim, and have a rim located between 400 mm and 460 mm above the floor, except in the case of a walk-in bathtub equipped with a closing mechanism ensuring tightness,
e) have faucets and other controls that
i) conform to Clause 3.8.3.8.(1)(b), and
ii) arelocatedonthecentrelineorbetweenthecentrelineof the bathtub and the exterior edge of the bathtub rim, at a maximum height of 450 mm above the rim,
f) have three grab bars
i) that conform to Sentence 3.7.2.8.(1),
ii) thatarenotlessthan1200mmlong,
iii) two of which are located vertically at each end of the
bathtub, set 80 mm to 120 mm in from the outside edge of the bathtub, with their lower end 180 mm to 280 mm above the bathtub rim, and
iv) oneofwhichislocatedhorizontallyalongthelengthofthe bathtub at 180 mm to 280 mm above the bathtub rim,
g) have a slip-resistant surface on the bottom,
h) be equipped with a hand-held shower head with
i) adivertervalvethatcanbeoperatedwithaclosedfistby a seated person,
3-184 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
ii)
iii)
one of which is not less than 1 000 mm long and located vertically on the side wall 50 mm to 80 mm from the adjacent clear floor space, with its lower end 600 mm to 650 mm above the floor, and, oneofwhichisL-shapedandlocatedonthewallopposite the entrance to the shower, with a horizontal member not less than 1 000 mm long mounted 750 mm to 870 mm above the floor and a vertical member not less than 750 mm long mounted 400 mm to 500 mm from the side wall on which the other vertical grab bar is mounted,
   © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 3.8.4.1.
3.8.3.18.
3.8.3.19.
ii) aflexiblehosenotlessthan1800mmlong,and
iii) a bracket enabling a seated person to use the hand-held
shower head as a fixed shower head, and
i) have a soap holder easy to reach by a seated person.
Assistive Listening Devices
(See Note A-3.8.3.18.)
1) Except as provided in Sentence (2), assistive listening systems required by Article 3.8.2.9. shall encompass the entire seating area.
2) If an assistive listening system referred to in Article 3.8.2.9. is an induction loop system, only half the seating area in the room need be encompassed.
Counters
1) Counters required by Sentence 3.8.2.11.(1) shall have
a) at least one barrier-free section not less than 760 mm long centred over a
knee space conforming to Clause (c),
b) a surface not more than 865 mm above the floor, and
c) except as provided in Sentence (2), a knee space underneath it that is i) not less than 760 mm wide,
ii) not less than 685 mm high, and iii) not less than 485 mm deep.
2) A counter that is used in a cafeteria, or one that performs a similar function where movement may take place parallel to the counter, need not provide a knee space underneath it.
Shelves or Counters for Telephones
(See Note A-3.8.3.20.)
1) Shelves or counters required by Sentence 3.8.2.11.(2) shall
a) be level,
b) be not less than 305 mm deep,
c) have, for each telephone provided, a clear space not less than 250 mm wide
having no obstruction within 250 mm above the surface, and
d) have a section with a surface not more than 865 mm above the floor serving
at least one telephone.
2) Where a wall-hung telephone is provided above the shelf or counter section described in Clause (1)(d), it shall be located so that the receiver and coin slot are not more than 1 200 mm above the floor.
Spaces in Seating Area
1) Spaces designated for wheelchair use referred to in Sentence 3.8.2.3.(3) shall be
a) clear and level, or level with removable seats,
b) not less than 900 mm wide and 1 525 mm long to permit a wheelchair to
enter from a side approach and 1 220 mm long where the wheelchair enters
from the front or rear of the space,
c) arranged so that at least 2 designated spaces are side by side,
d) located adjoining a barrier-free path of travel without infringing on egress from any row of seating or any aisle requirements, and
e) situated, as part of the designated seating plan, to provide a choice of viewing location and a clear view of the event taking place.
Minimally Accessible Dwelling Unit of Residential Occupancy
Application
1) This Subsection shall apply to minimally accessible dwelling units of residential
3.8.3.20.
3.8.3.21.
3.8.4. 3.8.4.1.
occupancy.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 3-185
   © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.8.4.2.
Division B
3.8.4.2.
2) In addition, in the minimally accessible dwelling unit of residential occupancy, the requirements in Articles 3.8.3.2., 3.8.3.5., 3.8.3.6. and 3.8.3.7. apply, except as provided for in this Subsection.
Barrier-free Path of Travel
1) In the dwelling unit, the barrier-free path of travel shall extend from the door at the entrance to the dwelling unit to the inside of each of the following:
a) a washroom (see Note A-3.8.4.2.(1)(a)),
b) a living room, and
c) a dining room.
2) Where the barrier-free path of travel giving access to the spaces has a corridor, a level floor surface shall be provided for changes of direction in the corridor
a) not less than 1 500 mm in diameter, or b) notlessthan1500mmby1050mm.
Doors and Doorways
(See Note A-3.8.4.3.)
1) A sliding door shall have a clear space on the latch side extending the height of the doorway and not less than
a) 50 mm beyond the edge of the door opening if the approach is perpendicular, or
b) 540 mm beyond the edge of the door opening if the approach is lateral.
2) Except for the entrance door to a dwelling unit, notwithstanding the provisions of Sentence 3.8.3.6.(14), the floor surface on each side of a door shall be level within
a rectangular area
a) as wide as the door plus the clearance required on the latch side by Sentence (1) or 3.8.3.6.(11), and
b) whose dimension perpendicular to the closed door is
i) notlessthan1050mmifthedoorswingsawayfromthe
approach side,
ii) notlessthan1050mmforaslidingdooriftheapproach
is lateral, or
iii) notlessthan1200mminothercases.
Controls
1) Controls for the operation of building services or safety devices, including electrical switches, thermostats, door hardware, electrical outlets and intercom switches, that are intended to be operated by the occupant and are located in or adjacent to a barrier-free path of travel shall
a) be installed 400 to 1200 mm above the floor, and
b) be located at a distance not less than 300 mm from the inside corner of a wall.
Washroom
1) The washroom shall be provided with a water closet
a) having a rear wall clearance over a length not less than 1 000 mm, that is,
500 mm on each side of the centre of the water closet or the floor flange, or
b) having a rear wall clearance over a length not less than 850 mm, measured
from the side wall if
i) the water closet is installed at a distance not less than
460 mm and not more than 480 mm from a side wall, measured from the centre of the fixture or the centre of the floor flange, and
ii) thesidewallhasalengthnotlessthan1250mm.
2) The washroom shall be provided with a lavatory
a) placed so that there is not less than 460 mm between its axis and a side
wall, and
b) the edge of which is not more than 865 mm from the floor.
3.8.4.3.
3.8.4.4.
3.8.4.5.
3-186 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
3.8.5.3.
3.8.5. 3.8.5.1.
3.8.5.2.
and over a height not less than 900 mm. (See Note A-3.8.4.5.(4).)
5) A continuous wood nailing element shall be installed, if applicable, in the walls surrounding the bathtub and the shower, over a height not less than 1 800 mm, measured from the floor.
Adaptable Dwelling Unit of Residential Occupancy
Application
1) This Subsection shall apply to adaptable dwelling units of residential occupancy.
2) In addition, in the adaptable dwelling unit of residential occupancy, the
requirements in Articles 3.8.3.2., 3.8.3.5., 3.8.3.6. and 3.8.3.7. shall apply, subject to the requirements of this Subsection.
Barrier-Free Path of Travel
1) In the dwelling unit, the barrier-free path of travel shall extend from the door at the entrance to the dwelling unit to the inside of each of the following spaces:
a) a bathroom (see Note A-3.8.5.2.(1)(a)),
b) a living room,
c) a dining room,
d) a kitchen,
e) at least one bedroom, and
f) a balcony, where provided.
2) Where the barrier-free path of travel giving access to the spaces has a corridor, a level floor surface shall be provided for changes of direction in the corridor of
a) not less than 1 500 mm in diameter, or b) notlessthan1500mmby1050mm.
Doorways and Doors
1) A sliding door shall have a clear space on the latch side extending the height of the doorway and not less than
a) 50 mm beyond the edge of the door opening if the approach is perpendicular, or
b) 540 mm beyond the edge of the door opening if the approach is lateral.
3.8.5.3.
3)
a) b)
4)
a)
b)
The washroom shall be provided with a clear space that is
round and 1 500 mm in diameter to access the lavatory and the water closet, or
rectangular to access
i) thelavatory,750mmwideby1200mmlongcenteredon the lavatory and located in front of the lavatory, and
ii) the water closet, 1 400 mm long from the rear wall of the water closet by 1 200 mm wide, regardless of the lavatory.
A continuous wood nailing element shall be installed for the water closet where the water closet is installed in accordance with Clause (1)(a), in the wall behind the water closet, over a surface not less than 1 000 mm wide centered in the centre of the water closet and over a height not less than 1 100 mm, measured from the floor, or
where the water closet is installed in accordance with Clause (1)(b)
i) in the side wall, over a length not less than 1 250 mm,
measured from the rear wall of the water closet and over a
height not less than 1 500 mm, measured from the floor, and
ii) inthewallbehindthewaterclosetoverasurfacenotless
than 800 mm wide centered on the centre of the water closet
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 3-187
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.8.5.4.
Division B
3.8.5.4.
3.8.5.5.
2) Notwithstanding the provisions of Sentence 3.8.3.6.(14), the floor surface, on each side of a door, shall be level within
a) a round area and have a diameter not less than 1 500 mm, or
b) a rectangular area
i) aswideasthedoorplustheclearancerequiredonthelatch side by Sentence (1) or 3.8.3.6.(11), and
ii) whosedimensionperpendiculartothecloseddoorisnot less than 1 050 mm where the door swings away from the approach side or for a sliding door where the approach is lateral, or is not less than 1 200 mm in other cases.
Controls
1) Controls for the operation of building services or safety devices, including electrical switches, thermostats, door hardware, electrical outlets and intercom switches, that are intended to be operated by the occupant and that are located in or adjacent to a barrier-free path of travel shall
a) be installed 400 to 1 200 mm above the floor, and
b) be located at a distance not less than 300 mm from the inside corner of a wall.
Bathroom
1) The bathroom shall be provided with a water closet
a) whose centre of the floor flange is placed not less than 1 400 mm from the
centre of the lavatory trap, or
b) that is located not less than 1 100 mm from an adjacent wall or from
equipment, measured from the centre of the floor flange.
(See Note A-3.8.5.5.(1).)
2) The bathroom shall be provided with a lavatory
a) whose trap is placed so that there is not less than 460 mm between its axis
and a side wall,
b) whose trap bottom is located not less than 230 mm and not more than
300 mm from the floor, and
c) whose trap entrance is located not more than 330 mm from the wall behind
the lavatory.
(See Note A-3.8.5.5.(2).)
3) The bathroom shall have not less than one bathtub or one shower and, if the bathroom has only one shower, the shower shall have a floor surface of not less than 900 mm by 900 mm.
4) The bathroom shall have a clear space to access
a) the lavatory and the water closet, that is round and 1 500 mm in diameter,
b) the shower, where provided, that is rectangular, not less than 750 mm by
1 200 mm in front of the shower, and
c) the bathtub, where provided, that is rectangular, not less than 1 200 mm
measured from the faucets by 750 mm measured perpendicularly to the bathtub.
5) A continuous wood nailing element shall be installed
a) in the walls around the bathtub or the shower, over a height of not less than
1 800 mm, measured from the floor, and
b) in the wall behind the water closet, over an area not less than 1 000 mm wide
centred in the middle of the floor flange and over a height of not less than 1 100 mm, measured from the floor.
Bedroom
1) The adaptable bedroom shall have an area not less than 11 m2 having a length
and a width not less than 3 m.
2) Except where the bedroom is located in the basement, the window sill, if applicable, shall be installed at a maximum height of 1 000 mm from the floor.
3.8.5.6.
3-188 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
3.9.1.2.
3.8.5.7.
Kitchen
1) A round clear space not less than 1 500 mm in diameter shall be provided in the kitchen for access to the sink and range, regardless of the counters. (See Note A-3.8.5.7.(1).)
2) The bottom of the sink trap shall be located 230 mm from the floor. (See Note A-3.8.5.7.(2) and (3).)
3) The entrance of the sink trap shall be located not more than 330 mm from the wall behind the sink or not less than 280 mm from the front of the sink. (See Note A-3.8.5.7.(2) and (3).)
Living Room and Dining Room
1) Except where the spaces are located in the basement, the window sill of the living room and the dining room, where provided, shall be installed at a maximum height of 1 000 mm from the floor.
Balcony
1) Notwithstanding the requirements of Sentence 3.8.3.6.(14), a balcony, where
provided, shall have a round clear area not less than 1 500 mm in diameter.
Hotels and Motels Application
1) This Subsection applies to the barrier-free suites of a hotel or motel referred to in Article 3.8.2.12.
Barrier-free Path of Travel
1) Barrier-free suites of a hotel or motel shall have a barrier-free path of travel that conforms to the requirements in Subsection 3.8.3. extending to the inside of each room and to the balcony, where applicable.
2) A barrier-free suite of a hotel or motel shall have a bathroom that
a) conforms to Article 3.8.3.12.,
b) has a bathtub conforming to Article 3.8.3.17. or a shower conforming to
Article 3.8.3.16., and
c) has a towel rod located not higher than 1 200 mm from the floor so as to be
easily accessible by a person in a wheelchair.
3) Every closet in such a suite shall have
a) an open space not less than 1 500 mm in diameter in front of the closet, and
b) a rod located not more than 1 300 mm from the floor.
3.8.5.8.
3.8.5.9.
3.8.6. 3.8.6.1.
3.8.6.2.
Section 3.9. Self-service Storage Buildings
3.9.1. 3.9.1.1.
3.9.1.2.
General Definition
1) For the purpose of this Section, the term “self-service storage building” shall mean a building that is open to the public for the sole purpose of providing individual self-service storage units.
Application
1) This Section applies to self-service storage buildings that
a) are not more than one storey in building height,
b) do not contain a basement or mezzanine,
c) consist of individual self-service storage units with external access only,
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division B
3-189
  © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.9.1.3.
Division B
3.9.1.3.
3.9.2. 3.9.2.1.
3.9.2.2.
3.9.2.3.
3.9.3. 3.9.3.1.
d) are used for no purpose other than storage, and
e) except as provided in Sentences 3.9.3.1.(2) and (4), contain no other major
occupancy.
2) Where there is a conflict between the requirements of this Section and other
requirements in Part 3, this Section shall govern.
3) The requirements in Part 3 regarding occupant load shall not apply to self-service
storage buildings.
Occupancy Classification
1) Self-service storage buildings shall be classified as Group F, Division 2 major occupancies.
Building Fire Safety Building Area
1) For the purpose of applying the requirements of Subsections 3.2.1. and 3.2.2. to self-service storage buildings, building area shall mean
a) the building area of each building, or
b) the total of the building areas of all buildings as a group.
(See Note A-3.9.2.1.(1).)
Spatial Separation
(See Note A-3.9.2.2.)
1) Except as provided in Sentence (3), the spatial separation requirements in Subsection 3.2.3. shall apply to self-service storage buildings.
2) The distance between each group of self-service storage buildings shall be not less than 9 m.
3) Subsection 3.2.3. need not apply between buildings within a group of self-service storage buildings, where the distance between these buildings is at least 6 m.
Access Route
1) Where Clause 3.9.2.1.(1)(b) is applied to a group of buildings, Article 3.2.5.4. and
Sentence 3.2.5.5.(1) shall apply to that group of buildings as if they were a single building. Floor Areas
Safety Requirements Within Floor Areas
1) Except as provided in Sentences (2) to (6), the requirements of Section 3.3. shall
apply. (See Note A-3.9.3.1.(1).)
2) Not more than one dwelling unit is permitted to be contained within one of the
self-service storage buildings on a property.
3) A dwelling unit referred to in Sentence (2) shall be separated from individual self-service storage units by a fire separation having a fire-resistance rating not less than 2 h.
4) Where an office not more than 50 m2 in area is adjacent to a dwelling unit referred to in Sentence (2), it shall be considered as part of the dwelling unit.
5) Fire separations required by Sentences 3.3.1.1.(1) and 3.3.5.9.(1) need not be provided between individual self-service storage units.
6) The floor area of self-service storage buildings shall be
a) subdivided into compartments not more than 500 m2 in area by a fire
separation having a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h, or
b) sprinklered.
(See also Sentence 3.4.6.12.(2) for the exemption applying to exit doors of individual self-service storage units.)
3-190 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 3.10.1.1.
3.9.3.2. Sanitary Facilities
1) Except as provided in Sentence 3.7.2.1.(1), two public washrooms, each containing a water closet and a lavatory, shall be provided within one of the self-service storage buildings on the property. (See Note A-3.9.3.2.(1).)
Section 3.10. Objectives and Functional Statements
3.10.1. Objectives and Functional Statements 3.10.1.1. Attributions to Acceptable Solutions
1) For the purpose of compliance with this Code as required in
Clause 1.2.1.1.(1)(b) of Division A, the objectives and functional statements attributed to the acceptable solutions in this Part shall be the objectives and functional statements listed in Table 3.10.1.1. (See Note A-1.1.2.1.(1).)
Table 3.10.1.1.
Objectives and Functional Statements Attributed to the Acceptable Solutions in Part 3
Forming Part of Sentence 3.10.1.1.(1)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
3.1.2.7. Ambulatory Clinic Occupancy
(2) [F03-OS1.2] [F02-OS1.1]
(3) [F03-OS1.2] [F02-OS1.1]
(4) [F03-OS1.2]
(5) [F10-OS1.5]
(6) [F03-OS1.2]
3.1.3.1. Separation of Major Occupancies
(1) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
(2) [F03-OS1.2]
(3) [F02,F03,F06-OS1.2] [F10,F05-OS1.5] [F02,F03,F06-OP1.2]
3.1.3.2. Prohibition of Occupancy Combinations
(1) [F02,F03-OS1.2] [F10-OS1.5]
(2) [F02,F03-OS1.2]
(3) [F02,F03-OS1.2]
(4) [F02,F03-OS1.2]
3.1.4.1. Combustible Materials Permitted
(2) [F02-OS1.2] [F02-OP1.2]
(3) [F02-OS1.2] [F02-OP1.2]
3.1.4.2. Protection of Foamed Plastics
(1) [F01-OS1.1] [F02-OS1.2] [F01-OP1.1] [F02-OP1.2]
(2)
Table 3.10.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
[F01-OS1.1] [F02-OS1.2]
[F01-OP1.1] [F02-OP1.2]
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division B
3-191
3.1.4.3. Wires and Cables
(1) [F02-OS1.2] [F02-OP1.2]
(2) [F02-OS1.2] [F02-OP1.2]
(3) [F02-OS1.2] [F02-OP1.2]
3.1.4.5. Fire-Retardant-Treated Wood
(1) [F02-OS1.2] [F02-OP1.2]
3.1.4.8. Combustible Terrace
(1) [F02,F03-OP3.1]
3.1.5.1. Noncombustible Materials
(1) [F02-OS1.2] [F02-OP1.2]
3.1.5.5. Combustible Cladding on Exterior Walls
(2) [F03,F02-OP3.1]
3.1.5.21. Wires and Cables
(2) [F02-OS1.2] [F02-OP1.2]
(3) [F02-OS1.2] [F02-OP1.2]
3.1.5.23. Non-metallic Raceways
(1) [F02-OS1.2] [F02-OP1.2]
(2) [F02-OS1.2] [F02-OP1.2]
                                                             © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.10.1.1.
Division B
Table 3.10.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
3.1.6.2. Restrictions
(1) [F10,F12,F36-OS3.7] [F20-OS2.2]
(2) [F10,F36-OS3.7] Applies to portion of Code text: “An air-supported structure shall not be used for Groups B, C, ... major occupancies or for classrooms.”
[F01,F02,F36-OS1.5] Applies to portion of Code text: “An air-supported structure shall not be used for ... Group F, Division 1 major occupancies ...”
(3) [F10-OS3.7]
(4) [F11-OS3.7]
3.1.6.3. Clearance to Other Structures (2) (a) [F03-OS1.2]
(b) [F10-OS3.7]
(a) [F03-OP3.1]
3.1.6.4. Clearance to Flammable Material
(1) [F01-OS1.1] [F03-OS1.2] [F01-OP1.1] [F03-OP1.2]
3.1.6.5. Flame Resistance
(1) [F02-OS1.2]
3.1.6.6. Emergency Air Supply
(1) [F20-OS3.7]
3.1.6.7. Electrical Systems
(1) [F34-OP1.1] [F34-OS3.3] [F34-OS1.1]
(2) [F81-OP1.1] [F81-OS1.1]
3.1.6.8. Fire Alarm and Detection Systems
(1) [F11-OS1.5]
3.1.6.11. Access for Firefighting
(1) [F12-OS1.2]
(2) [F12-OP1.2]
3.1.6.12. Heat-Producing Equipment
(1) [F31-OS3.2]
(2) [F02-OS1.2]
3.1.6.13. Structural Soundness (1) [F20-OS2.1]
3.1.7.1. Determination of Ratings (1) [F03-OS1.2] [F04-OS1.3]
[F03-OP1.2] [F04-OP1.3]
3.1.7.5. Rating of Supporting Construction
(1) [F04-OS1.3] [F04-OP1.3]
(3)
Table 3.10.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
[F04-OS1.3]
[F04-OP1.3]
3-192 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
3.1.7.6. Sprinkler-Protected Fixed Glass Walls
(2) (a),(b),(c) [F03-OS1.2] (d) [F05-OS1.5]
(3) [F03-OS1.2]
3.1.8.1. General Requirements
(1) (a) [F03-OS1.2] (a) [F03-OP1.2]
(2) [F03-OS1.2] Applies to the requirement that openings in fire separations be protected with closures, shafts or other means.
[F03-OP1.2] Applies to the requirement that openings in fire separations be protected with closures, shafts or other means.
3.1.8.2. Combustible Construction Support
(1) [F04-OS1.2] [F04-OP1.2]
3.1.8.3. Continuity of Fire Separations
(1) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
(2) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
(3) (a) [F03-OS1.2] (a) [F03-OP1.2] (b) [F03-OS1.2] (b) [F03-OP1.2]
(4) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
3.1.8.4. Determination of Ratings and Classifications
(1) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
(2) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
(3) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
(4) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
3.1.8.5. Installation of Closures
(2) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
(3) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
(4) [F81-OS1.2] [F81-OP1.2]
                                                                                     © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
3.10.1.1.
Table 3.10.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
(5) [F81-OP1.2] [F81-OS1.2]
(6) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
(7) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
3.1.8.6. Maximum Openings
(1) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
(2) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
3.1.8.7. Location of Fire Dampers and Smoke Dampers
(1) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
(2) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
3.1.8.10. Installation of Fire Dampers
(1) [F04-OS1.2] [F04-OP1.2]
(2) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
(3) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
(4) [F03-OS1.2]
Table 3.10.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
(5) [F82-OS1.2] Applies to portion of Code text: “A tightly fitted access door shall be installed for each smoke damper to provide access for the inspection of the damper ...”
[F82-OH1.2] Applies to portion of Code text: “A tightly fitted access door shall be installed for each smoke damper to provide access for the inspection of the damper ...”
[F82-OP1.2] Applies to portion of Code text: “A tightly fitted access door shall be installed for each fire damper to provide access for the ... resetting of the release device.”
3.1.8.12. Twenty-Minute Closures
(3) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
3.1.8.13. Self-closing Devices
(1) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
3.1.8.14. Hold-Open Devices
(1) [F03-OS1.2]
(2) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
(3) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
(4) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
(5) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
3.1.8.15. Door Latches
[F03-OP1.2] (1)
(5) [F82-OS1.2] Applies to portion of Code text: “A tightly fitted access door shall be installed for each fire damper to provide access for the inspection of the damper ...”
[F82-OP1.2] Applies to portion of Code text: “A tightly fitted access door shall be installed for each fire damper to provide access for the inspection of the damper ...”
[F82-OH1.2] Applies to portion of Code text: “A tightly fitted access door shall be installed for each fire damper to provide access for ... the resetting of the release device.”
3.1.8.11. Installation of Smoke Dampers
(1) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
(2) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
(3) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
(4) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
[F03-OS1.2]
[F03-OP1.2]
3.1.8.16. Wired Glass and Glass Block
(3) [F04-OS1.2] Applies to portion of Code text: “Glass blocks permitted by Sentence (1) shall be ... reinforced with steel reinforcement in each horizontal joint.”
[F04-OP1.2] Applies to portion of Code text: “Glass blocks permitted by Sentence (1) shall be ... reinforced with steel reinforcement in each horizontal joint.”
3.1.8.17. Temperature Rise Limit for Doors
(1) [F03,F31-OS1.2] [F05-OS1.5] [F03-OP1.2]
3.1.8.18. Area Limits for Wired Glass and Glass Block
(1) [F05-OS1.5] [F31-OS1.2] [F30-OS3.1]
(2) [F05-OS1.5] [F31-OS1.2]
3.1.9.1. Fire Stops
(1) [F03-OS1.2] [F04-OS1.3] [F03-OP1.2] [F04-OP1.3]
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Amended Page
Division B
3-193
                                                                            © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.10.1.1.
Division B
Table 3.10.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
(2) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP3.1] [F03-OP1.2]
(3) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
3.1.9.2. Combustibility of Service Penetrations
Table 3.10.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
3.1.10.2. Rating of Firewalls
3.1.9.4. Penetration by Outlet Boxes
(1) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2] (3) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
3.1.9.5. Combustible Piping Penetrations
(3) [F03-OS1.2] [F02,F04-OS1.3] [F03-OP1.2] [F02,F04-OP1.3]
3.1.9.6. Openings through a Membrane Ceiling
(1) [F04-OS1.3] [F04-OP1.3]
3.1.10.1. Prevention of Firewall Collapse
(1) [F04-OP1.2] [F04-OS1.2] [F04-OP3.1]
(2) [F03,F04-OP1.2] [F03,F04-OS1.2] [F03,F04-OP3.1]
(4) [F04-OS1.2] [F04-OP1.2] [F04-OP3.1]
(2) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2] [F03-OP3.1]
(3) [F80,F04-OP1.2] [F80,F04-OS1.2] [F80,F04-OP1.3]
3.1.10.3. Continuity of Firewalls
(1) [F03-OS1.2] Applies to portion of Code text: “A firewall shall extend from the ground continuously through, or adjacent to, all storeys of a building or buildings so separated ...”
[F03-OP1.2] Applies to portion of Code text: “A firewall shall extend from the ground continuously through, or adjacent to, all storeys of a building or buildings so separated ...”
[F03-OP3.1] Applies to portion of Code text: “A firewall shall extend from the ground continuously through, or adjacent to, all storeys of a building or buildings so separated ...”
3.1.10.4. Parapets
(1) [F03-OP1.2] [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP3.1]
3.1.10.5. Maximum Openings
(1) [F03-OP1.2] Applies to portion of Code text: “... the aggregate width of openings shall be not more than 25% of the entire length of the firewall.”
[F03-OS1.2] Applies to portion of Code text: “... the aggregate width of openings shall be not more than 25% of the entire length of the firewall.”
[F03-OP3.1] Applies to portion of Code text: “... the aggregate width of openings shall be not more than 25% of the entire length of the firewall.”
3-194 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
      (1)
     [F03-OS1.2] Applies to portion of Code text: “A firewall that separates a building or buildings with floor areas containing
a Group E or a Group F, Division 1 or 2 major occupancy shall be constructed as a fire separation of noncombustible construction having a fire-resistance rating not less than 4 h ...”
  [F03-OP1.2] Applies to portion of Code text: “A firewall that separates a building or buildings with floor areas containing
a Group E or a Group F, Division 1 or 2 major occupancy shall be constructed as a fire separation of noncombustible construction having a fire-resistance rating not less than 4 h ...”
  [F03-OP3.1] Applies to portion of Code text: “A firewall that separates a building or buildings with floor areas containing
a Group E or a Group F, Division 1 or 2 major occupancy shall be constructed as a fire separation of noncombustible construction having a fire-resistance rating not less than 4 h ...”
        (1)
   [F03-OS1.2] [F02,F04-OS1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “Except as permitted by Articles 3.1.9.3. and 3.1.9.5., pipes, ducts, electrical outlet boxes, totally enclosed raceways or other similar service equipment that penetrate an assembly required to have a fire-resistance rating shall be noncombustible ...”
  [F03-OP1.2] [F02,F04-OP1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “Except as permitted by Articles 3.1.9.3. and 3.1.9.5., pipes, ducts, electrical outlet boxes, totally enclosed raceways or other similar service equipment that penetrate an assembly required to have a fire-resistance rating shall be noncombustible ...”
                                          © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
3.10.1.1.
Table 3.10.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
3.1.10.7. Combustible Projections
(1) [F03-OP1.2] Applies to portion of Code text: “Combustible material shall not extend across the end of a firewall ...”
[F03-OS1.2] Applies to portion of Code text: “Combustible material shall not extend across the end of a firewall ...”
[F03-OP3.1] Applies to portion of Code text: “Combustible material shall not extend across the end of a firewall ...”
(2) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2] [F03-OP3.1]
3.1.11.1. Separation of Concealed Spaces
(1) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
3.1.11.2. Fire Blocks in Wall Assemblies
(1) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
3.1.11.3. Fire Blocks between Nailing and Supporting Elements
(1) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
(2) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
3.1.11.4. Fire Blocks between Vertical and Horizontal Spaces
(1) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
3.1.11.5. Fire Blocks in Horizontal Concealed Spaces
(1) [F03,F04-OS1.2] [F03,F04-OP1.2]
(2) [F03,F04-OS1.2] [F03,F04-OP1.2]
(3) [F03,F04-OS1.2] [F03,F04-OP1.2]
3.1.11.6. Fire Blocks in Crawl Spaces
(1) [F03,F04-OS1.2] [F03,F04-OP1.2]
3.1.11.7. Fire Block Materials
(1) [F04-OS1.2] [F04-OP1.2]
(5) [F04-OP1.2] [F04-OS1.2]
(6) [F03-OP1.2] [F03-OS1.2]
3.1.12.1. Determination of Ratings
(1) [F02-OS1.2] [F02-OP1.2]
(2)
Table 3.10.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
[F02-OS1.2]
[F02-OP1.2]
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Amended Page
Division B
3-195
3.1.13.2. Flame-Spread Rating
(1) [F02-OS1.2] [F02-OP1.2] 3.1.13.5. Skylights (1) [F02-OS1.5] 3.1.13.6. Corridors
(1) [F02-OS1.2,OS1.5] [F02-OP1.2]
(5) [F02-OS1.2,OS1.5] [F02-OP1.2]
(6) [F02-OS1.2] [F02-OP1.2]
3.1.13.7. High Buildings
(1) [F02-OS1.2] [F02-OP1.2]
3.1.13.9. Underground Walkways
(1) [F02-OS1.2] [F02-OP3.1]
3.1.13.10. Exterior Exit Passageway
(1) [F02-OS1.5]
3.1.13.11. Elevator Cars
(1) [F02-OS1.2] [F02-OP1.2] (2) [F02-OS1.2] [F02-OP1.2]
3.1.14.1. Fire-Retardant-Treated Wood Roof Systems
(1) [F02-OS1.2] [F02-OP1.2]
(2) [F02-OS1.3,OS1.2] [F02-OP1.3]
3.1.14.2. Metal Roof Deck Assemblies
(1) [F02-OS1.2] [F02-OP1.2]
3.1.15.1. Roof Covering Classification
(1) [F02-OS1.2] [F02-OP1.2] [F02-OP3.1]
3.1.15.2. Roof Coverings
(1) [F02-OS1.2] [F02-OP1.2] [F02-OP3.1]
                                                                                        © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.10.1.1.
Division B
Table 3.10.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
(3) [F02-OS1.2] [F02-OP1.2] [F02-OP3.1]
3.1.16.1. Fabric Canopies and Marquees
(1) [F02-OS1.2,OS1.5] [F02-OP1.2]
3.1.17.1. Occupant Load Determination
(1) [F10-OS3.7]
[F72-OH2.1] [F71-OH2.3]
(2) [F10-OS3.7]
[F72-OH2.1] [F71-OH2.3]
(4) [F10-OS3.7]
[F72-OH2.1] [F71-OH2.3]
3.2.1.2. Storage Garage Considered as a Separate Building
(1) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
(2) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
(3) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
3.2.1.4. Floor Assembly over Basement
(1) [F03-OS1.2] [F04-OS1.3] [F03-OP1.2] [F04-OP1.3]
(2) [F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] [F04-OP1.2,OP1.3]
3.2.1.5. Fire Containment in Basements
(1) [F02-OS1.2,OS1.3] [F02-OP1.2,OP1.3]
3.2.2.2. Special and Unusual Structures
(1) [F02,F03,F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] [F02,F03,F04-OP1.2,OP1.3]
3.2.2.6. Multiple Major Occupancies
(1) [F02,F03,F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] [F02,F03,F04-OP1.2,OP1.3]
3.2.2.7. Superimposed Major Occupancies
(3) [F04-OS1.3] [F04-OP1.3]
(4) [F04-OS1.3] [F04-OP1.3]
3.2.2.10. Streets
(1) [F12-OS1.2,OS1.5] [F12-OP1.2]
Table 3.10.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
3.2.2.15. Storeys below Ground
3-196 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
(2)
(a) [F02,F04-OS1.2,OS1.3]
(a) [F02,F04-OP1.2,OP1.3]
(b),(c) [F03-OS1.2] [F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] (b),(c) [F03-OP1.2] [F04-OP1.2,OP1.3]
3.2.2.18. Automatic Sprinkler System Required
(2) [F02,F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] [F02,F04-OP1.2,OP1.3]
3.2.2.20. Group A, Division 1, Any Height, Any Area, Sprinklered
(2) [F02-OS1.2] Applies to portion of Code text: “... the building referred to in Sentence (1) shall be of noncombustible construction ...”
[F02-OP1.2] Applies to portion of Code text: “... the building referred to in Sentence (1) shall be of noncombustible construction ...”
[F02,F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... a) ... the building shall be sprinklered throughout ...”
[F02,F04-OP1.2,OP1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... a) ... the building shall be sprinklered throughout ...”
(b),(d) [F03-OS1.2] [F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] (b),(d) [F03-OP1.2] [F04-OP1.2,OP1.3] (c),(d) [F04-OS1.3]
(c),(d) [F04-OP1.3]
3.2.2.21. Group A, Division 1, One Storey, Limited Area, Sprinklered
(1) [F02,F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... a) ... the building is sprinklered throughout ...”
[F02,F04-OP1.2,OP1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... a) ... the building is sprinklered throughout ...”
3.2.2.22. Group A, Division 1, One Storey, Sprinklered
(1)
[F02,F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... a) ... the building is sprinklered throughout ...”
[F02,F04-OP1.2,OP1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... a) ... the building is sprinklered throughout ...”
                                                   (2)
       [F02-OS1.2] Applies to portion of Code text: “The building referred to in Sentence (1) is permitted to be of heavy timber construction or noncombustible construction used singly or in combination ...”
  [F02-OP1.2] Applies to portion of Code text: “The building referred to in Sentence (1) is permitted to be of heavy timber construction or noncombustible construction used singly or in combination ...”
  [F03-OS1.2] [F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... (a) floor assemblies shall be fire separations ... (i) with afire-resistance rating not less than 45 min ...” and to Clause (b).
  [F03-OP1.2] [F04-OP1.2,OP1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... (a) floor assemblies shall be fire separations... (i) with a fire-resistance rating not less than 45 min ...” and to Clause (b).
                     © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
3.10.1.1.
(2)
Table 3.10.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
(b),(c) [F04-OS1.3]
(b),(c) [F04-OP1.3]
Table 3.10.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
3.2.2.25. Group A, Division 2, up to 2 Storeys
3.2.2.23. Group A, Division 2, Any Height, Any Area, Sprinklered
(2) [F02-OS1.2] Applies to portion of Code text: “... the building referred to in Sentence (1) shall be of noncombustible construction ...”
[F02-OP1.2] Applies to portion of Code text: “... the building referred to in Sentence (1) shall be of noncombustible construction ...”
[F02,F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... a) ... the building shall be sprinklered throughout ...”
[F02,F04-OP1.2,OP1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... a) ... the building shall be sprinklered throughout ...”
(b),(d) [F03-OS1.2] [F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] (b),(d) [F03-OP1.2] [F04-OP1.2,OP1.3] (c),(d) [F04-OS1.3]
(c),(d) [F04-OP1.3]
3.2.2.24. Group A, Division 2, up to 6 Storeys, Any Area, Sprinklered
(1) [F02,F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... a) ... the building is sprinklered throughout ...”
[F02,F04-OP1.2,OP1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... a) ... the building is sprinklered throughout ...”
(2) [F02-OS1.2] Applies to portion of Code text: “... the building referred to in Sentence (1) shall be of noncombustible construction ...”
[F02-OP1.2] Applies to portion of Code text: “... the building referred to in Sentence (1) shall be of noncombustible construction ...”
(a),(c) [F03-OS1.2] [F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] (a),(c) [F03-OP1.2] [F04-OP1.2,OP1.3] (b),(c) [F04-OS1.3]
(b),(c) [F04-OP1.3]
(a) [F03-OS1.2] Applies to the requirement that noncombustible floor assemblies be fire separations.
(a) [F03-OP1.2] Applies to the requirement that noncombustible floor assemblies be fire separations.
(a),(d) [F03-OS1.2] [F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] (a),(d) [F03-OP1.2] [F04-OP1.2,OP1.3] (b),(d) [F04-OS1.3]
(b),(d) [F04-OP1.3]
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division B
3-197
(2)
3.2.2.26. Group A, Division 2, up to 2 Storeys, Increased Area, Sprinklered
(1) [F02,F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... a) ... the building is sprinklered throughout ...”
[F02,F04-OP1.2,OP1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... a) ... the building is sprinklered throughout ...”
(2) (a) [F03-OS1.2] Applies to the requirement that noncombustible floor assemblies be fire separations.
(a) [F03-OP1.2] Applies to the requirement that noncombustible floor assemblies be fire separations.
(a),(c) [F03-OS1.2] [F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] (a),(c) [F03-OP1.2] [F04-OP1.2,OP1.3] (b),(c) [F04-OS1.3]
(b),(c) [F04-OP1.3]
3.2.2.27. Group A, Division 2, up to 2 Storeys, Sprinklered
(1) [F02,F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... a) ... the building is sprinklered throughout ...”
[F02,F04-OP1.2,OP1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... a) ... the building is sprinklered throughout ...”
3.2.2.28. Group A, Division 2, One Storey
(2) [F03-OP1.2] [F03-OS1.2]
     [F03-OS1.2] [F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... a) floor assemblies shall be fire separations with a fire-resistance rating not less than 45 min, ...” and to Clause (d).
   [F03-OP1.2] [F04-OP1.2,OP1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... a) floor assemblies shall be fire separations with a fire-resistance rating not less than 45 min, ...” and to Clause (d).
     [F04-OS1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... c) roof assemblies shall have, if of combustible construction, a fire-resistance rating not less than 45 min, ...” and to Clause (d).
   [F04-OP1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... c) roof assemblies shall have, if of combustible construction, a fire-resistance rating not less than 45 min, ...” and to Clause (d).
                                            © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.10.1.1.
Division B
Table 3.10.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
3.2.2.29. Group A, Division 3, Any Height, Any Area, Sprinklered
(2) [F02-OS1.2] Applies to portion of Code text: “... the building referred to in Sentence (1) shall be of noncombustible construction ...”
[F02-OP1.2] Applies to portion of Code text: “... the building referred to in Sentence (1) shall be of noncombustible construction ...”
[F02,F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... a) ... the building shall be sprinklered throughout ...”
[F02,F04-OP1.2,OP1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... a) ... the building shall be sprinklered throughout ...”
(b),(d) [F03-OS1.2] [F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] (b),(d) [F03-OP1.2] [F04-OP1.2,OP1.3] (c),(d) [F04-OS1.3]
(c),(d) [F04-OP1.3]
3.2.2.30. Group A, Division 3, up to 2 Storeys
(2) [F02-OS1.2] Applies to portion of Code text: “Except as permitted by Clauses (c) and (d), the building referred to in Sentence (1) shall be of noncombustible construction ...”
[F02-OP1.2] Applies to portion of Code text: “Except as permitted by Clauses (c) and (d), the building referred to in Sentence (1) shall be of noncombustible construction ...”
Table 3.10.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
3.2.2.32. Group A, Division 3, One Storey, Increased Area
(2) (a),(c) [F04-OS1.3] (a),(c) [F04-OP1.3]
(3) [F02-OS1.2] [F04-OS1.3] [F02-OP1.2] [F04-OP1.3]
3.2.2.33. Group A, Division 3, One Storey, Sprinklered
(1) [F02,F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... a) ... the building is sprinklered throughout ...”
[F02,F04-OP1.2,OP1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... a) ... the building is sprinklered throughout ...”
3.2.2.35. Group A, Division 4
(1) [F02-OS1.2] Applies to portion of Code text: “... a building classified as Group A, Division 4 shall be of noncombustible construction.”
[F02-OP1.2] Applies to portion of Code text: “... a building classified as Group A, Division 4 shall be of noncombustible construction.”
(4) [F02,F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] [F02,F04-OP1.2,OP1.3]
3.2.2.36. Group B, Division 1, Any Height, Any Area, Sprinklered
(2) [F02-OS1.2] Applies to portion of Code text: “... the building referred to in Sentence (1) shall be of noncombustible construction ...”
[F02-OP1.2] Applies to portion of Code text: “... the building referred to in Sentence (1) shall be of noncombustible construction ...”
[F02,F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... a) ... the building shall be sprinklered throughout ...”
[F02,F04-OP1.2,OP1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... a) ... the building shall be sprinklered throughout ...”
(b),(d) [F03-OS1.2] [F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] (b),(d) [F03-OP1.2] [F04-OP1.2,OP1.3] (c),(d) [F04-OS1.3]
(c),(d) [F04-OP1.3]
3.2.2.37. Group B, Division 1, up to 3 Storeys, Sprinklered
(1) [F02,F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... a) ... the building is sprinklered throughout ...”
[F02,F04-OP1.2,OP1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... a) ... the building is sprinklered throughout ...”
(a),(d) [F03-OS1.2] [F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] (a),(d) [F03-OP1.2] [F04-OP1.2,OP1.3] (b),(d) [F04-OS1.3]
(b),(d) [F04-OP1.3]
[F04-OS1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... c) roof assemblies shall i) have a fire-resistance rating not less 45 min, ...” and to Clause (d).
[F04-OP1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... c) roof assemblies shall i) have a fire-resistance rating not less 45 min, ...” and to Clause (d).
(3) [F02-OS1.2] [F04-OS1.3] [F02-OP1.2] [F04-OP1.3]
3.2.2.31. Group A, Division 3, up to 2 Storeys, Sprinklered
(1) [F02,F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: ... the building is sprinklered throughout ...”
[F02,F04-OP1.2,OP1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: ... the building is sprinklered throughout ...”
than
than
“... a) “... a)
(2) [F02-OS1.2] Applies to portion of Code text: “Except
as permitted by Clause (c) ... the building referred to in Sentence (1) shall be of noncombustible construction ...”
[F02-OP1.2] Applies to portion of Code text: “Except
as permitted by Clause (c) ... the building referred to in Sentence (1) shall be of noncombustible construction ...”
(a),(c) [F03-OS1.2] [F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] (a),(c) [F03-OP1.2] [F04-OP1.2,OP1.3] (b),(c) [F04-OS1.3]
(b),(c) [F04-OP1.3]
3-198 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
           [F04-OS1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... b) roof assemblies shall have, if of combustible construction, a fire-resistance rating not less than 45 min, ...” and to Clause (c).
   [F04-OP1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... b) roof assemblies shall have, if of combustible construction, a fire-resistance rating not less than 45 min, ...” and to Clause (c).
                                                    © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
3.10.1.1.
Table 3.10.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
(2) [F02-OS1.2] Applies to portion of Code text: “... the building referred to in Sentence (1) shall be of noncombustible construction ...”
[F02-OP1.2] Applies to portion of Code text: “... the building referred to in Sentence (1) shall be of noncombustible construction ...”
(a),(c) [F03-OS1.2] [F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] (a),(c) [F03-OP1.2] [F04-OP1.2,OP1.3] (b),(c) [F04-OS1.3]
(b),(c) [F04-OP1.3]
3.2.2.38. Group B, Division 2, Any Height, Any Area, Sprinklered
(2) [F02-OS1.2] Applies to portion of Code text: “... the building referred to in Sentence (1) shall be of noncombustible construction ...”
[F02-OP1.2] Applies to portion of Code text: “... the building referred to in Sentence (1) shall be of noncombustible construction ...”
[F02,F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... a) ... the building shall be sprinklered throughout ...”
[F02,F04-OP1.2,OP1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... a) ... the building shall be sprinklered throughout ...”
(b),(d) [F03-OS1.2] [F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] (b),(d) [F03-OP1.2] [F04-OP1.2,OP1.3] (c),(d) [F04-OS1.3]
(c),(d) [F04-OP1.3]
3.2.2.39. Group B, Division 2, up to 3 Storeys, Sprinklered
(1) [F02,F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... a) ... the building is sprinklered throughout ...”
[F02,F04-OP1.2,OP1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... a) ... the building is sprinklered throughout ...”
(2) [F02-OS1.2] Applies to portion of Code text: “... the building referred to in Sentence (1) shall be of noncombustible construction ...”
[F02-OP1.2] Applies to portion of Code text: “... the building referred to in Sentence (1) shall be of noncombustible construction ...”
(a),(c) [F03-OS1.2] [F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] (a),(c) [F03-OP1.2] [F04-OP1.2,OP1.3] (b),(c) [F04-OS1.3]
(b),(c) [F04-OP1.3]
3.2.2.40. Group B, Division 2, up to 2 Storeys, Sprinklered
(1) [F02,F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... a) ... the building is sprinklered throughout ...”
[F02,F04-OP1.2,OP1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... a) ... the building is sprinklered throughout ...”
(2) (a),(c) [F03-OS1.2] [F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] (a),(c) [F03-OP1.2] [F04-OP1.2,OP1.3] (b),(c) [F04-OS1.3]
(b),(c) [F04-OP1.3]
Table 3.10.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
3.2.2.41. Group B, Division 2, One Storey, Sprinklered
(1) [F02,F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... a) ... the building is sprinklered throughout ...”
[F02,F04-OP1.2,OP1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... a) ... the building is sprinklered throughout ...”
3.2.2.42. Group B, Division 3, Any Height, Any Area, Sprinklered
(2) [F02-OS1.2] Applies to portion of Code text: “... the building referred to in Sentence (1) shall be of noncombustible construction ...”
[F02-OP1.2] Applies to portion of Code text: “... the building referred to in Sentence (1) shall be of noncombustible construction ...”
[F02,F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... a) ... the building shall be sprinklered throughout ...”
[F02,F04-OP1.2,OP1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... a) ... the building shall be sprinklered throughout ...”
(b),(d) [F03-OS1.2] [F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] (b),(d) [F03-OP1.2] [F04-OP1.2,OP1.3] (c),(d) [F04-OS1.3]
(c),(d) [F04-OP1.3]
3.2.2.43. Group B, Division 3, up to 3 Storeys (Noncombustible), Sprinklered
(1) [F02,F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... a) ... the building is sprinklered throughout ...”
[F02,F04-OP1.2,OP1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... a) ... the building is sprinklered throughout ...”
(2) [F02-OS1.2] Applies to portion of Code text: “... the building referred to in Sentence (1) shall be of noncombustible construction ...”
[F02-OP1.2] Applies to portion of Code text: “... the building referred to in Sentence (1) shall be of noncombustible construction ...”
(a),(c) [F03-OS1.2] [F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] (a),(c) [F03-OP1.2] [F04-OP1.2,OP1.3] (b),(c) [F04-OS1.3]
(b),(c) [F04-OP1.3]
3.2.2.44. Group B, Division 3, up to 2 Storeys, Sprinklered
(1) [F02,F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] [F02,F04-OP1.2,OP1.3]
[F03-OS1.2] [F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] [F03-OP1.2] [F04-OP1.2,OP1.3] [F04-OS1.3]
(2) (b) [F04-OP1.3]
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division B
3-199
                                                               © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.10.1.1.
Division B
Table 3.10.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
3.2.2.45. Group B, Division 3, 1 Storey
(1) [F02,F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] [F02,F04-OP1.2,OP1.3]
[F03-OS1.2] [F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] [F03-OP1.2] [F04-OP1.2,OP1.3] [F04-OS1.3]
(2) (b),(c) [F04-OP1.3]]
3.2.2.46. Group B, Division 3, up to 2 Storeys
(1) [F02,F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] [F02,F04-OP1.2,OP1.3]
[F03-OS1.2] [F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] [F03-OP1.2] [F04-OP1.2,OP1.3] [F04-OS1.3]
(2) [F04-OP1.3]
3.2.2.47. Group C, Any Height, Any Area, Sprinklered
(2) [F02-OS1.2] Applies to portion of Code text: “... the building referred to in Sentence (1) shall be of noncombustible construction ...”
[F02-OP1.2] Applies to portion of Code text: “... the building referred to in Sentence (1) shall be of noncombustible construction ...”
[F02,F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... a) ... the building shall be sprinklered throughout ...”
[F02,F04-OP1.2,OP1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... a) ... the building shall be sprinklered throughout ...”
(b),(d) [F03-OS1.2] [F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] (b),(d) [F03-OP1.2] [F04-OP1.2,OP1.3] (c),(d) [F04-OS1.3]
(c),(d) [F04-OP1.3]
3.2.2.48. Group C, up to 6 Storeys, Sprinklered, Noncombustible Construction
(1) [F02,F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... a) ... the building is sprinklered throughout ...”
[F02,F04-OP1.2,OP1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... a) ... the building is sprinklered throughout ...”
(2) [F02-OS1.2] Applies to portion of Code text: “... the building referred to in Sentence (1) shall be of noncombustible construction ...”
[F02-OP1.2] Applies to portion of Code text: “... the building referred to in Sentence (1) shall be of noncombustible construction ...”
(a),(c) [F03-OS1.2] [F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] (a),(c) [F03-OP1.2] [F04-OP1.2,OP1.3] (b),(c) [F04-OS1.3]
(b),(c) [F04-OP1.3]
Table 3.10.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
3.2.2.49. Group C, up to 3 Storeys, Noncombustible Construction
(2) [F02-OS1.2] Applies to portion of Code text: “The building referred to in Sentence (1) shall be of noncombustible construction ...”
[F02-OP1.2] Applies to portion of Code text: “The building referred to in Sentence (1) shall be of noncombustible construction ...”
[F03-OS1.2] [F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “a) ... floor assemblies shall be fire separation with a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h, ...” and to Clause (d).
[F03-OP1.2] [F04-OP1.2,OP1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... a) ... floor assemblies shall be fire separations with a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h, ...” and to Clause (d).
(b),(d) [F04-OS1.3] (b),(d) [F04-OP1.3] (c),(d) [F04-OS1.3] (c),(d) [F04-OP1.3]
3.2.2.50. Group C, up to 6 Storeys, Sprinklered
(1) (a) [F02,F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] (a) [F02,F04-OP1.2,OP1.3]
(2) [F03-OS1.2] [F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “a) ... floor assemblies shall be fire separations with a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h, ...” and to Clause (e).
[F03-OP1.2] [F04-OP1.2,OP1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... a) ... floor assemblies shall be fire separations with a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h, ...” and to Clause (e).
(b),(d),(e) [F04-OS1.3]
(b),(d),(e) [F04-OP1.3]
3.2.2.51. Group C, up to 4 Storeys, Sprinklered
(1) [F02,F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... a) ... the building is sprinklered throughout ...”
[F02,F04-OP1.2,OP1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... a) ... the building is sprinklered throughout ...”
(2) [F03-OS1.2] [F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “...a) ... floor assemblies shall be fire separations with a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h, ...” and to Clause (c).
[F03-OP1.2] [F04-OP1.2,OP1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “...a) ... floor assemblies shall be fire separations with a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h, ...” and to Clause (c).
(b),(c) [F04-OS1.3] (b),(c) [F04-OP1.3]
3-200 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
                                                            © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
3.10.1.1.
Table 3.10.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
3.2.2.52. Group C, up to 3 Storeys, Increased Area
(2) [F03-OS1.2] [F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... a) ... floor assemblies shall be fire separations with a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h, ...” and to Clause (d).
[F03-OP1.2] [F04-OP1.2,OP1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... a) ... floor assemblies shall be fire separations with a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h, ...” and to Clause (d).
(b),(d) [F04-OS1.3] (b),(d) [F04-OP1.3] (c),(d) [F04-OS1.3] (c),(d) [F04-OP1.3]
3.2.2.53. Group C, up to 3 Storeys
(2)
Table 3.10.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
3.2.2.55. Group D, Any Height, Any Area, Sprinklered
(2) [F02-OS1.2] Applies to portion of Code text: “... the building referred to in Sentence (1) shall be of noncombustible construction ...”
[F02-OP1.2] Applies to portion of Code text: “... the building referred to in Sentence (1) shall be of noncombustible construction ...”
[F02,F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... a) ... the building shall be sprinklered throughout ...”
[F02,F04-OP1.2,OP1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... a) ... the building shall be sprinklered throughout ...”
(b),(d) [F03-OS1.2] [F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] (b),(d) [F03-OP1.2] [F04-OP1.2,OP1.3] (c),(d) [F04-OS1.3]
(c),(d) [F04-OP1.3]
3.2.2.56. Group D, up to 6 Storeys
(2) [F02-OS1.2] Applies to portion of Code text: “The building referred to in Sentence (1) shall be of noncombustible construction ...”
[F02-OP1.2] Applies to portion of Code text: “The building referred to in Sentence (1) shall be of noncombustible construction ...”
(a),(d) [F03-OS1.2] [F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] (a),(d) [F03-OP1.2] [F04-OP1.2,OP1.3] (b),(d) [F04-OS1.3]
(b),(d) [F04-OP1.3]
[F04-OS1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... c) roof assemblies shall have a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h ...” and to Clause (d).
[F04-OP1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... c) roof assemblies shall have a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h, ...” and to Clause (d).
3.2.2.57. Group D, up to 6 Storeys, Sprinklered, Noncombustible Construction
(1) [F02,F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... a) ... the building is sprinklered throughout ...”
[F02,F04-OP1.2,OP1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... a) ... the building is sprinklered throughout ...”
(2) [F02-OS1.2] Applies to portion of Code text: “... the building referred to in Sentence (1) shall be of noncombustible construction ...”
[F02-OP1.2] Applies to portion of Code text: “... the building referred to in Sentence (1) shall be of noncombustible construction ...”
(a),(c) [F03-OS1.2] [F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] (a),(c) [F03-OP1.2] [F04-OP1.2,OP1.3] (b),(c) [F04-OS1.3]
(b),(c) [F04-OP1.3]
(b),(c) [F04-OS1.3]
(b),(c) [F04-OP1.3]
3.2.2.54. Group C, up to 3 Storeys, Sprinklered
(1) [F02,F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... a) ... the building is sprinklered throughout ...”
[F02,F04-OP1.2,OP1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... a) ... the building is sprinklered throughout ...”
(2)
(b),(c) [F04-OS1.3] (b),(c) [F04-OP1.3]
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Amended Page Division B 3-201
                    [F03-OS1.2] [F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... a) ... floor assemblies shall be fire separations with a fire-resistance rating not less than 45 min, ...” and to Clause (c).
   [F03-OP1.2] [F04-OP1.2,OP1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “...a) ... floor assemblies shall be fire separations with a fire-resistance rating not less than 45 min, ...” and to Clause (c).
                   [F03-OS1.2] [F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “ ... a) ... floor assemblies shall be fire separations with a fire-resistance rating not less than 45 min, ...” and to Clause (c).
   [F03-OP1.2] [F04-OP1.2,OP1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... a) ... floor assemblies shall be fire separations with a fire-resistance rating not less than 45 min, ...” and to Clause (c).
               © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.10.1.1.
Division B
Table 3.10.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
3.2.2.58. Group D, up to 6 Storeys, Sprinklered
(1) (a) [F02,F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] (a) [F02,F04-OP1.2,OP1.3]
(a) [F03-OS1.2] [F04-OS1.3,OS1.2]
(2) (a),(e) [F03-OP1.2] [F04-OP1.2,OP1.3]
(b),(d),(e) [F04-OS1.3]
(b),(d),(e) [F04-OP1.3]
3.2.2.59. Group D, up to 4 Storeys, Sprinklered
(1) [F02,F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... a) ... the building is sprinklered throughout ...”
[F02,F04-OP1.2,OP1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... a) ... the building is sprinklered throughout ...”
(2) (a),(c) [F03-OS1.2] [F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] (a),(c) [F03-OP1.2] [F04-OP1.2,OP1.3] (b),(c) [F04-OS1.3]
(b),(c) [F04-OP1.3]
3.2.2.60. Group D, up to 3 Storeys
(2)
Table 3.10.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
3.2.2.62. Group D, up to 2 Storeys
(2) (a) [F03-OS1.2] Applies to the requirement that noncombustible floor assemblies be fire separations.
(a) [F03-OP1.2] Applies to the requirement that noncombustible floor assemblies be fire separations.
[F03-OS1.2] [F04-OS1.2,OS1.3]
[F03-OP1.2] [F04-OP1.2,OP1.3]
3.2.2.63. Group D, up to 2 Storeys, Sprinklered
(1) [F02,F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... a) ... the building is sprinklered throughout ...”
[F02,F04-OP1.2,OP1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... a) ... the building is sprinklered throughout ...”
(2) (a) [F03-OS1.2] Applies to the requirement that noncombustible floor assemblies be fire separations.
(a) [F03-OP1.2] Applies to the requirement that noncombustible floor assemblies be fire separations.
[F03-OS1.2] [F04-OS1.2,OS1.3]
[F03-OP1.2] [F04-OP1.2,OP1.3]
3.2.2.64. Group E, Any Height, Any Area, Sprinklered
(2) [F02-OS1.2] Applies to portion of Code text: “... the building referred to in Sentence (1) shall be of noncombustible construction ...”
[F02-OP1.2] Applies to portion of Code text: “... the building referred to in Sentence (1) shall be of noncombustible construction ...”
[F02,F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... a) ... the building shall be sprinklered throughout ...”
[F02,F04-OP1.2,OP1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... a) ... the building shall be sprinklered throughout ...”
(b),(d) [F03-OS1.2] [F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] (b),(d) [F03-OP1.2] [F04-OP1.2,OP1.3] (c),(d) [F04-OS1.3]
(c),(d) [F04-OP1.3]
3.2.2.65. Group E, up to 4 Storeys, Sprinklered
(1) [F02,F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... a) ... the building is sprinklered throughout ...”
[F02,F04-OP1.2,OP1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... a) ... the building is sprinklered throughout ...”
(2) (a),(c) [F03-OS1.2] [F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] (a),(c) [F03-OP1.2] [F04-OP1.2,OP1.3] (b),(c) [F04-OS1.3]
(b),(c) [F04-OP1.3]
(a) [F03-OS1.2] Applies to the requirement that noncombustible floor assemblies be fire separations.
(a) [F03-OP1.2] Applies to the requirement that noncombustible floor assemblies be fire separations.
(a),(d) [F03-OS1.2] [F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] (a),(d) [F03-OP1.2] [F04-OP1.2,OP1.3] (b),(d) [F04-OS1.3]
(b),(d) [F04-OP1.3]
3.2.2.61. Group D, up to 3 Storeys, Sprinklered
(1) [F02,F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... a) ... the building is sprinklered throughout ...”
[F02,F04-OP1.2,OP1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... a) ... the building is sprinklered throughout ...”
(2) (a) [F03-OS1.2] Applies to the requirement that noncombustible floor assemblies be fire separations.
(a) [F03-OP1.2] Applies to the requirement that noncombustible floor assemblies be fire separations.
(a),(c) [F03-OS1.2] [F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] (a),(c) [F03-OP1.2] [F04-OP1.2,OP1.3] (b),(c) [F04-OS1.3]
(b),(c) [F04-OP1.3]
3-202 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
                                 [F04-OS1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... c) roof assemblies shall have, if of combustible construction, a fire-resistance rating not less than 45 min, ...” and to Clause (d).
   [F04-OP1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... c) roof assemblies shall have, if of combustible construction, a fire-resistance rating not less than 45 min, ...” and to Clause (d).
                                 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
3.10.1.1.
Table 3.10.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
3.2.2.66. Group E, up to 3 Storeys
(2) (a),(e) [F03-OS1.2] [F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] (a),(e) [F03-OP1.2] [F04-OP1.2,OP1.3] (b),(d) [F04-OS1.3]
(b),(d) [F04-OP1.3]
(c),(d) [F04-OS1.3]
(c),(d) [F04-OP1.3]
3.2.2.67. Group E, up to 3 Storeys, Sprinklered
(1) [F02,F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... a) ... the building is sprinklered throughout ...”
[F02,F04-OP1.2,OP1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... a) ... the building is sprinklered throughout ...”
(2) (a),(d) [F03-OS1.2] [F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] (a),(d) [F03-OP1.2] [F04-OP1.2,OP1.3] (b),(c) [F04-OS1.3]
(b),(c) [F04-OP1.3]
3.2.2.68. Group E, up to 2 Storeys
(2) [F03-OS1.2] [F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] (a),(b) [F03-OP1.2] [F04-OP1.2,OP1.3]
3.2.2.69. Group E, up to 2 Storeys, Sprinklered
(1) [F02,F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... a) ... the building is sprinklered throughout ...”
[F02,F04-OP1.2,OP1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... a) ... the building is sprinklered throughout ...”
(2) [F03-OS1.2] [F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] (a),(b) [F03-OP1.2] [F04-OP1.2,OP1.3]
3.2.2.70. Group F, Division 1, up to 4 Storeys, Sprinklered
(2) (c),(d) [F04-OP1.3]
[F02-OS1.2] Applies to portion of Code text: “... the building referred to in Sentence (1) shall be of noncombustible construction ...”
[F02-OP1.2] Applies to portion of Code text: “... the building referred to in Sentence (1) shall be of noncombustible construction ...”
[F02,F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... a) ... the building shall be sprinklered throughout ...”
[F02,F04-OP1.2,OP1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... a) ... the building shall be sprinklered throughout ...”
(b),(d) [F03-OS1.2] [F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] (b),(d) [F03-OP1.2] [F04-OP1.2,OP1.3] (c),(d) [F04-OS1.3]
3.2.2.71. Group F, Division 1, up to 3 Storeys, Sprinklered
(1) [F02,F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... a) ... the building is sprinklered throughout ...”
[F02,F04-OP1.2,OP1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... a) ... the building is sprinklered throughout ...”
(2)
Table 3.10.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
[F03-OS1.2] [F04-OS1.2,OS1.3]
[F03-OP1.2] [F04-OP1.2,OP1.3]
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division B
3-203
3.2.2.72. Group F, Division 1, up to 2 Storeys, Sprinklered
(1) [F02,F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... a) ... the building is sprinklered throughout ...”
[F02,F04-OP1.2,OP1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... a) ... the building is sprinklered throughout ...”
(2) [F03-OS1.2] Applies to portion of Code text: “... a) [noncombustible] floor assemblies shall be fire separations ...”
[F03-OP1.2] Applies to portion of Code text: “... a) [noncombustible] floor assemblies shall be fire separations ...”
[F03-OS1.2] [F04-OS1.2,OS1.3]
[F03-OP1.2] [F04-OP1.2,OP1.3]
3.2.2.74. Group F, Division 2, Any Height, Any Area, Sprinklered
(2) [F02-OS1.2] Applies to portion of Code text: “... the building referred to in Sentence (1) shall be of noncombustible construction ...”
[F02-OP1.2] Applies to portion of Code text: “... the building referred to in Sentence (1) shall be of noncombustible construction ...”
[F02,F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... a) ... the building shall be sprinklered throughout ...”
[F02,F04-OP1.2,OP1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... a) ... the building shall be sprinklered throughout ...”
(b),(d) [F03-OS1.2] [F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] (b),(d) [F03-OP1.2] [F04-OP1.2,OP1.3] (c),(d) [F04-OS1.3]
(c),(d) [F04-OP1.3]
3.2.2.75. Group F, Division 2, up to 4 Storeys, Increased Area, Sprinklered
(1) [F02,F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... a) ... the building is sprinklered throughout ...”
[F02,F04-OP1.2,OP1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... a) ... the building is sprinklered throughout ...”
      [F02-OS1.2] Applies to portion of Code text: “The building referred to in Sentence (1) is permitted to be of heavy timber construction or noncombustible construction used singly or in combination ...”
   [F02-OP1.2] Applies to portion of Code text: “The building referred to in Sentence (1) is permitted to be of heavy timber construction or noncombustible construction used singly or in combination ...”
                                                         © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.10.1.1.
Division B
Table 3.10.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
(2) [F02-OS1.2] Applies to portion of Code text: “... the building referred to in Sentence (1) shall be of noncombustible construction ...”
[F02-OP1.2] Applies to portion of Code text: “... the building referred to in Sentence (1) shall be of noncombustible construction ...”
(a),(c) [F03-OS1.2] [F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] (a),(c) [F03-OP1.2] [F04-OP1.2,OP1.3] (b),(c) [F04-OS1.3]
(b),(c) [F04-OP1.3]
3.2.2.76. Group F, Division 2, up to 3 Storeys
(2) (a),(e) [F03-OS1.2] [F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] (a),(e) [F03-OP1.2] [F04-OP1.2,OP1.3] (b),(d) [F04-OS1.3]
(b),(d) [F04-OP1.3]
3.2.2.77. Group F, Division 2, up to 4 Storeys, Sprinklered
(1) [F02,F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... a) ... the building is sprinklered throughout ...”
[F02,F04-OP1.2,OP1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... a) ... the building is sprinklered throughout ...”
(2) (a),(d) [F03-OS1.2] [F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] (a),(d) [F03-OP1.2] [F04-OP1.2,OP1.3] (b),(c) [F04-OS1.3]
(b),(c) [F04-OP1.3]
3.2.2.78. Group F, Division 2, up to 2 Storeys
(2) (a) [F03-OS1.2] Applies to the requirement that noncombustible floor assemblies be fire separations.
(a) [F03-OP1.2] Applies to the requirement that noncombustible floor assemblies be fire separations.
[F03-OS1.2] [F04-OS1.2,OS1.3]
[F03-OP1.2] [F04-OP1.2,OP1.3]
3.2.2.79. Group F, Division 2, up to 2 Storeys, Sprinklered
(1) [F02,F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... a) ... the building is sprinklered throughout ...”
[F02,F04-OP1.2,OP1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... a) ... the building is sprinklered throughout ...”
(2)
Table 3.10.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
(a) [F03-OS1.2] Applies to the requirement that noncombustible floor assemblies be fire separations.
(a) [F03-OP1.2] Applies to the requirement that noncombustible floor assemblies be fire separations.
[F03-OS1.2] [F04-OS1.2,OS1.3]
[F03-OP1.2] [F04-OP1.2,OP1.3]
3-204 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
3.2.2.80. Group F, Division 3, Any Height, Any Area, Sprinklered
(2) [F02-OS1.2] Applies to portion of Code text: “... the building referred to in Sentence (1) shall be of noncombustible construction ...”
[F02-OP1.2] Applies to portion of Code text: “... the building referred to in Sentence (1) shall be of noncombustible construction ...”
[F02,F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... a) ... the building shall be sprinklered throughout ...”
[F02,F04-OP1.2,OP1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... a) ... the building shall be sprinklered throughout ...”
(b),(d) [F03-OS1.2] [F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] (b),(d) [F03-OP1.2] [F04-OP1.2,OP1.3] (c),(d) [F04-OS1.3]
(c),(d) [F04-OP1.3]
3.2.2.81. Group F, Division 3, up to 6 Storeys
(2) [F02-OS1.2] Applies to portion of Code text: “The building referred to in Sentence (1) shall be of noncombustible construction...”
[F02-OP1.2] Applies to portion of Code text: “The building referred to in Sentence (1) shall be of noncombustible construction ...”
(a),(d) [F03-OS1.2] [F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] (a),(d) [F03-OP1.2] [F04-OP1.2,OP1.3] (b),(d) [F04-OS1.3]
(b),(d) [F04-OP1.3]
(c),(d) [F04-OS1.3]
(c),(d) [F04-OP1.3]
3.2.2.82. Group F, Division 3, up to 6 Storeys, Sprinklered
(1) [F02,F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... a) ... the building is sprinklered throughout ...”
[F02,F04-OP1.2,OP1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... a) ... the building is sprinklered throughout ...”
(2) [F02-OS1.2] Applies to portion of Code text: “... the building referred to in Sentence (1) shall be of noncombustible construction ...”
[F02-OP1.2] Applies to portion of Code text: “... the building referred to in Sentence (1) shall be of noncombustible construction ...”
(a),(c) [F03-OS1.2] [F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] (a),(c) [F03-OP1.2] [F04-OP1.2,OP1.3] (b),(c) [F04-OS1.3]
(b),(c) [F04-OP1.3]
                         [F04-OS1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... c) roof assemblies shall have, if of combustible construction, a fire-resistance rating not less than 45 min ...” and to Clause (d).
   [F04-OP1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... c) roof assemblies shall have, if of combustible construction, a fire-resistance rating not less than 45 min, ...” and to Clause (d).
                                         © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
3.10.1.1.
Table 3.10.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
3.2.2.83. Group F, Division 3, up to 4 Storeys
Table 3.10.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
3.2.2.87. Group F, Division 3, One Storey
3.2.2.88. Group F, Division 3, One Storey, Sprinklered
(2)
(a) [F03-OS1.2] Applies to the requirement that noncombustible floor assemblies be fire separations.
(a) [F03-OP1.2] Applies to the requirement that noncombustible floor assemblies be fire separations.
(a),(d) [F03-OS1.2] [F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] (a),(d) [F03-OP1.2] [F04-OP1.2,OP1.3] (b),(d) [F04-OS1.3]
(b),(d) [F04-OP1.3]
(1)
3.2.2.84. Group F, Division 3, up to 4 Storeys, Sprinklered
(1) [F02,F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... a) ... the building is sprinklered throughout ...”
[F02,F04-OP1.2,OP1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... a) ... the building is sprinklered throughout ...”
(2) (a) [F03-OS1.2] Applies to the requirement that noncombustible floor assemblies be fire separations.
(a) [F03-OP1.2] Applies to the requirement that noncombustible floor assemblies be fire separations.
(a),(c) [F03-OS1.2] [F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] (a),(c) [F03-OP1.2] [F04-OP1.2,OP1.3] (b),(c) [F04-OS1.3]
(b),(c) [F04-OP1.3]
3.2.2.85. Group F, Division 3, up to 2 Storeys
(2) (a) [F03-OS1.2] Applies to the requirement that noncombustible floor assemblies be fire separations.
(a) [F03-OP1.2] Applies to the requirement that noncombustible floor assemblies be fire separations.
[F03-OS1.2] [F04-OS1.2,OS1.3]
[F03-OP1.2] [F04-OP1.2,OP1.3]
3.2.2.86. Group F, Division 3, up to 2 Storeys, Sprinklered
(1) [F02,F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... a) ... the building is sprinklered throughout ...”
[F02,F04-OP1.2,OP1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... a) ... the building is sprinklered throughout ...”
(2) (a) [F03-OS1.2] Applies to the requirement that noncombustible floor assemblies be fire separations.
(a) [F03-OP1.2] Applies to the requirement that noncombustible floor assemblies be fire separations.
[F03-OS1.2] [F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] [F03-OP1.2] [F04-OP1.2,OP1.3]
[F02,F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... a) ... the building is sprinklered throughout ...”
[F02,F04-OP1.2,OP1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... a) ... the building is sprinklered throughout ...”
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Amended Page Division B 3-205
3.2.2.89. Group F, Division 3, One Storey, Any Area, Low Fire Load Occupancy
(2) [F02-OS1.2] [F02-OP1.2]
3.2.2.90. Group F, Division 3, Storage Garages up to 22 m High
3.2.3.1. Limiting Distance and Area of Unprotected Openings
(1) [F03-OP3.1]
(5) [F03-OP3.1]
(6) [F03-OP3.1]
(8) [F03-OP3.1]
(9) [F03-OP3.1]
(10) [F03-OP3.1]
3.2.3.4. Party Wall
(1) [F03-OP3.1]
3.2.3.5. Wall with Limiting Distance Less Than 1.2 m
(1) [F03-OP3.1]
(2) [F03-OP3.1]
       [F04-OS1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... c) roof assemblies shall have, if of combustible construction, a fire-resistance rating not less than 45 min ...” and to Clause (d).
   [F04-OP1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “... c) roof assemblies shall have, if of combustible construction, a fire-resistance rating not less than 45 min, ...” and to Clause (d).
    (1)
   [F02-OS1.2] Applies to portion of Code text: “A building classified as Group F, Division 3 is permitted to be of heavy timber construction or noncombustible construction used singly or in combination ...”
  [F02-OP1.2] Applies to portion of Code text: “A building classified as Group F, Division 3 is permitted to be of heavy timber construction or noncombustible construction used singly or in combination ...”
     [F02-OS1.2] Applies to portion of Code text: “A building classified as Group F, Division 3 is permitted to be of heavy timber construction or noncombustible construction used singly or in combination ...”
   [F02-OP1.2] Applies to portion of Code text: “A building classified as Group F, Division 3 is permitted to be of heavy timber construction or noncombustible construction used singly or in combination ...”
                    (1)
   [F02-OS1.2] Applies to portion of Code text: “A building used as a storage garage with all storeys constructed as open-air storeys and having no other occupancy above it is permitted to have its floor, wall, ceiling and roof assemblies constructed without a fire-resistance rating provided it is: a) of noncombustible construction...”
  [F02-OP1.2] Applies to portion of Code text: “A building used as a storage garage with all storeys constructed as open-air storeys and having no other occupancy above it is permitted to have its floor, wall, ceiling and roof assemblies constructed without a fire-resistance rating provided it is: a) of noncombustible construction...”
                              © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.10.1.1.
Division B
Table 3.10.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
3.2.3.6. Combustible Projections
(1) [F03-OP3.1]
(2) [F03-OP3.1]
(3) [F03-OP3.1]
(5) [F03-OP3.1] (7) [F02-OS1.2]
[F02-OP1.2]
3.2.3.7. Construction of Exposing Building Face
(1) [F03,F02-OP3.1]
(2) [F03,F02-OP3.1]
(3) [F02,F03-OP3.1]
(4) [F03,F02-OP3.1]
3.2.3.8. Protection of Exterior Building Face (1) [F03,F02-OP3.1]
3.2.3.9. Protection of Structural Members
(1) [F04-OS1.3] [F04-OP1.3]
3.2.3.10. Unlimited Unprotected Openings
(1) [F03-OP3.1]
(2) [F03-OP3.1]
3.2.3.11. Low Fire Load, One Storey Building (1) (b) [F03-OP3.1]
(a) [F04-OP3.1]
3.2.3.12. Area Increase for Unprotected Openings
(1) [F03-OP3.1]
3.2.3.13. Protection of Exit Facilities
(4) [F06-OS1.2] [F05-OS1.5] [F06-OP1.2]
3.2.3.14. Wall Exposed to Another Wall
(1) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2] [F03-OP3.1]
(2) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2] [F03-OP3.1]
3.2.3.15. Wall Exposed to Adjoining Roof
(1) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
3.2.3.16. Protection of Soffits
(1) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
(2) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
Table 3.10.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
(3) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2] (4) [F02-OS1.2] [F02-OP1.2]
3.2.3.17. Canopy Protection for Vertically Separated Openings
(1) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2] (2) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2] (3) [F02-OS1.2] [F02-OP1.2]
3.2.3.18. Covered Vehicular Passageway
(1) [F03-OP3.1]
(2) [F02-OP3.1]
3.2.3.19. Walkway between Buildings
(1) [F03-OP3.1]
(2) [F02-OP3.1]
(3) [F02,F12-OP3.1]
3.2.3.20. Underground Walkway
(1) [F01,F02-OP3.1]
(2) [F03-OP3.1]
(3) [F02-OP3.1] Applies to portion of Code text: “An underground walkway shall be of noncombustible construction ...”
[F80-OP2.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “An underground walkway shall be ... suitable for an underground location.”
(4) (a) [F05-OS1.5] [F06-OS1.2] (b) [F10-OS1.5] [F12-OS1.2]
3.2.3.22. Installation of Service Lines Under Buildings
(1) [F01-OS1.1] [F01-OP1.1]
3.2.4.1. Determination of Requirement for a Fire Alarm System
(1) [F11-OS1.5] [F13-OS1.5,OS1.2] [F13-OP1.2]
(4) [F11-OS1.5]
3.2.4.2. Continuity of Fire Alarm System
(1) [F11-OS1.5]
(2) [F11-OS1.5]
(3) [F11-OS1.5]
(4) [F10-OS1.5] [F03-OS1.2]
(5) [F11,F13-OS1.2]
(6) [F11-OS1.5]
3-206 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
                                                                                      © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
3.10.1.1.
Table 3.10.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
3.2.4.3. Types of Fire Alarm Systems
(1) (a) [F11-OS1.5]
(b) [F11-OS1.4] [F13-OS1.5]
(c),(d) [F11-OS1.5]
3.2.4.4. Description of Fire Alarm Systems
(1) [F11-OS1.5]
(2) (a) [F11-OS1.4] [F13-OS1.5]
(b),(c) [F11-OS1.5]
(3) [F13-OS1.5]
(4) [F13-OS1.5]
3.2.4.5. Installation and Verification of Fire Alarm Systems
(1) [F11,F81-OS1.5] [F13,F12,F81-OS1.5,OS1.2] [F12,F11-OS3.7] Applies to voice communication systems.
(2) [F82-OS1.5]
3.2.4.6. Silencing of Alarm Signals
(1) [F11-OS1.5]
(2) [F81,F34-OS1.5]
3.2.4.7. Signals to Fire Department
(1) [F13-OS1.5,OS1.2]
[F13-OP1.2]
(2) [F13-OS1.5,OS1.2] [F13-OP1.2]
(3) [F13-OS1.5,OS1.2] [F13-OP1.2]
(4) [F81,F13-OS1.5,OS1.2] [F81,F13-OP1.2]
(5) [F13-OS1.5,OS1.2] [F13-OP1.2]
Table 3.10.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
(3) (a),(d),(e),(f),(g) [F82-OS1.2] (a),(d),(e),(f),(g) [F82-OP1.2]
(b),(c) [F82-OS1.5] (4) [F81-OP1.2]
[F82-OS1.2] (5) [F82-OS1.2] [F82-OP1.2]
3.2.4.10. Fire Detectors
(1) [F11-OS1.5]
(2) [F11-OS1.5]
(3) [F02-OS1.2] [F11-OS1.5]
(4) [F11-OS1.5]
3.2.4.11. Smoke Detectors
(1) [F11-OS1.5]
(3) [F12-OS1.5]
(4) [F10-OS1.5]
(5) [F11-OS1.5]
(7) [F11-OS1.4,OS1.5]
3.2.4.12. Prevention of Smoke Circulation
(1) [F03-OS1.2]
3.2.4.13. Vacuum Cleaning System Shutdown (1) [F03-OS1.2]
3.2.4.14. Elevator Emergency Return
(1) [F10-OS1.5]
(2) [F11-OS1.5]
(3) [F02-OS1.2]
3.2.4.15. System Monitoring
(6) [F13-OP1.2] [F13-OS1.2]
(7) [F13-OS1.5, [F13-OP1.2]
(8) [F13-OS1.5, [F13-OP1.2]
OS1.2]
OS1.2]
(1) (2) (3)
[F11-OS1.5] [F12-OS1.5,OS1.2] [F12-OP1.2]
[F11-OS1.5] [F13-OS1.5,OS1.2] [F13-OP1.2] [F12-OS1.2,OS1.5] [F12-OP1.2]
3.2.4.8. Annunciator and Zone Indication
(1) [F12-OS1.5,OS1.2]
(2) [F12-OS1.5,OS1.2]
(4) [F12-OS1.2,OS1.5]
(7) [F12-OS1.5,OS1.2] 3.2.4.9. Electrical Supervision
(1) [F82-OS1.5,OS1.2]
(2) [F82-OS1.2] [F82-OP1.2]
3.2.4.16. Manual Stations
(1) [F11-OS1.5]
(2) [F02-OS1.2] [F12-OS1.2,OS1.5] [F10-OS1.5] (3) [F02-OS1.2] [F12-OS1.2,OS1.5] [F10-OS1.5] (4) [F11-OS1.5]
(5) [F11-OS1.5]
3.2.4.17. Alert and Alarm Signals
(2) [F11-OS1.5]
(3) [F11-OS1.5]
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division B
3-207
                                                                                         © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.10.1.1.
Division B
Table 3.10.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
3.2.4.18. Audibility of Alarm Systems
(1) [F11-OS1.5]
(2) [F11-OS1.5]
(3) [F11-OS1.5]
(4) [F33-OS3.5]
(5) [F11-OS1.5]
(6) [F11-OS1.5]
(7) [F11,F81-OS1.5]
(8) [F11,F81-OS1.5]
(9) [F11,F81-OS1.5]
(10) [F11-OS1.5]
(12) [F11-OS1.5] 3.2.4.19. Visual Signals
(1) [F11-OS1.5]
(2) [F11-OS1.5]
(3) [F11-OS1.5]
3.2.4.20. Smoke Alarms
(2) [F81,F11-OS1.5]
(3) [F11-OS1.5]
(4) [F11-OS1.5]
(6) [F11-OS1.5]
(7) [F11,F81-OS1.5]
(8) [F11,F81-OS1.5]
(10) [F11-OS1.5]
(11) [F81,F11-OS1.5]
(12) [F11,F81-OS1.5]
(14) [F11-OS1.5]
3.2.4.21. Residential Fire Warning Systems
(1) [F11,F81-OS1.5]
3.2.4.22. Voice Communication Systems for High Buildings
(1) [F12,F11-OS3.7]
(2) [F11-OS1.5]
(3) [F11-OS1.5]
(4) [F11-OS1.5]
(5) [F12-OS3.7]
(6) [F11-OS1.5]
(7) [F11-OS1.5]
3.2.4.23. One-Way Voice Communication Systems (1)
(2)
(3)
Table 3.10.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
3.2.5.1. Access to Above-Grade Storeys
(1) [F12-OS1.5,OS1.2] [F12-OP1.2]
(2) [F12-OS1.5,OS1.2] [F12-OP1.2]
(3) [F12-OS1.5,OS1.2] [F12-OP1.2]
3.2.5.2. Access to Basements
(1) [F12-OS1.5,OS1.2] [F12-OP1.2]
(2) [F12-OS1.5,OS1.2] [F12-OP1.2]
3.2.5.3. Roof Access
(1) [F12-OS1.2] [F12-OP1.2] (2) [F12-OS1.2] [F12-OP1.2]
3.2.5.4. Access Routes
(1) [F12-OS1.5,OS1.2] [F12-OP1.2]
3.2.5.5. Location of Access Routes
(1) [F12-OS1.5,OS1.2] [F06-OS1.1] [F12-OP1.2]
(2) [F12-OS1.2] [F12-OP1.2] (4) [F12-OS1.2] [F12-OP1.2]
3.2.5.6. Access Route Design
(1) [F12-OS1.2] [F12-OP1.2]
(2) [F02,F12-OS1.2] [F02,F12,F03-OP1.2] [F02,F12,F03-OP3.1]
3.2.5.7. Water Supply
3-208
Division B
Amended Page
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
[F11-OS1.5] [F11-OS1.5] [F11-OS1.5]
3.2.5.8. Standpipe Systems
(1) [F02-OS1.2] [F02-OP1.2]
3.2.5.9. Standpipe System Design
(1) [F02-OS1.2] [F02-OP1.2]
[F13-OS1.4,OS1.5]
(1)
[F02-OS1.2] [F02-OP1.2] [F02-OP3.1]
                                                                                        © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
3.10.1.1.
Table 3.10.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
(2) [F12-OS1.2] [F12-OP1.2]
(5) [F02-OS1.2] [F02-OP1.2]
(6) [F12-OS1.2] [F12-OP1.2]
(7) [F46-OH2.2]
3.2.5.10. Hose Connections
(1) [F03-OS1.2] [F05,F06-OS1.5,OS1.2] [F03,F06-OP1.2]
(3) [F12-OS1.2] [F12-OP1.2]
(4) [F02-OS1.2] [F02-OP1.2]
3.2.5.11. Hose Stations
(1) [F02-OS1.2] [F02-OP1.2]
(2) [F02-OS1.2] [F02-OP1.2]
(3) [F02,F12-OS1.2] [F02,F12-OP1.2]
(4) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
(5) [F10-OS1.5]
(6) [F02-OS1.2] [F02-OP1.2]
(7) [F01-OS1.1]
3.2.5.12. Automatic Sprinkler Systems
(1) [F02,F81,F82-OS1.2] [F02,F81,F82-OP1.2]
(2) [F02,F81-OS1.2] [F02,F81-OP1.2]
(3) [F02,F81-OS1.2] [F02,F81-OP1.2]
(4) [F02-OS1.2] [F02-OP1.2]
(5) [F81-OS1.2] [F81-OP1.2]
(6) [F02-OS1.2] [F02-OP1.2]
(7) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2] [F03-OP3.1]
Table 3.10.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
(8) [F81-OS3.3,OS3.6]
(11) [F46-OH2.2]
3.2.5.13. Combustible Sprinkler Piping (2) [F02,F81-OS1.2]
[F02,F81-OP1.2] (3) [F06-OS1.2] [F06-OP1.2]
(4) [F06-OS1.2] [F06-OP1.2]
3.2.5.14. Sprinklered Service Space
(1) [F02-OS1.2] [F02-OP1.2] (2) [F12-OS1.2] [F12-OP1.2]
(3) [F11-OS1.5] [F12-OS1.5,OS1.2] [F12-OP1.2]
3.2.5.15. Fire Department Connections
(1) [F12-OS1.2] [F12-OP1.2] (2) [F12-OS1.2] [F12-OP1.2]
3.2.5.16. Portable Fire Extinguishers
(1) [F02,F12,F81-OS1.2] [F02,F12,F81-OP1.2]
(2) [F12-OS1.2] [F12-OP1.2]
3.2.5.17. Protection from Freezing
(1) [F81-OS1.2] [F81-OP1.2]
3.2.5.18. Fire Pumps
(1) [F02,F81-OS1.2] [F81-OS1.4] [F02,F81-OP1.2] [F81-OP1.4] 3.2.6.2. Limits to Smoke Movement
(1) [F02-OS1.2,OS1.5] [F02-OP1.2]
(2) [F06-OS1.2,OS1.5] [F05-OS1.5] [F06-OP1.2]
(3) [F06-OS1.5,OS1.2] [F05-OS1.5] [F06-OP1.2]
(4) [F03-OS1.2,OS1.5] [F03-OP1.2]
(5) [F03-OS1.2,OS1.5] [F03-OP1.2]
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division B
3-209
                                                                                          © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.10.1.1.
Division B
Table 3.10.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
(6) [F03,F12-OS1.2,OS1.5] [F03,F12-OP1.2] 3.2.6.3. Connected Buildings
(1) [F03-OS1.2,OS1.5] [F03-OP1.2] [F03-OP3.1]
3.2.6.4. Emergency Operation of Passenger Elevators
(1) [F12-OS1.2,OS1.5] [F12-OP1.2]
(2) [F12-OS1.2,OS1.5] [F12-OP1.2]
(3) [F12-OS1.2,OS1.5] [F12-OP1.2]
(4) [F12-OS1.2,OS1.5] [F12-OP1.2]
3.2.6.5. Passenger Elevator for Use by Firefighters
(1) [F12,F06-OS1.2,OS1.5] [F12,F06-OP1.2]
(2) [F12-OS1.2,OS1.5] [F12-OP1.2]
(3) [F06-OS1.2,OS1.5] [F06-OP1.2]
(4) [F12-OS1.2,OS1.5] [F12-OP1.2]
(5) [F12-OS1.2,OS1.5] [F12-OP1.2]
(6) [F06-OS1.2,OS1.5] [F06-OP1.2]
(7) [F06-OS1.2,OS1.5] [F06-OP1.2]
(8) [F12-OS3.7]
3.2.6.6. Venting to Aid Firefighting
(1) [F06-OS1.2,OS1.5] [F06-OP1.2]
(2) [F30-OS3.1]
(3) [F12-OS1.2,OS1.5]
[F12-OP1.2]
(4) [F03-OS1.2] [F12-OS1.2,OS1.5]
3.2.6.7. Central Alarm and Control Facility
(1) [F12-OS1.2,OS1.5]
[F12-OP1.2]
(2) [F12-OS1.2,OS1.5] [F11-OS1.5]
[F12-OP1.2]
Table 3.10.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
3.2.6.8. Voice Communication System
(1) [F12,F11-OS3.7]
3.2.6.9. Testing
(1) [F82-OS1.2,OS1.5] [F82-OP1.2]
3.2.7.1. Minimum Lighting Requirements
(1) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
(2) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7] 3.2.7.2. Recessed Lighting Fixtures (1) [F01-OS1.1,OS1.2]
[F01-OP1.1,OP1.2]
3.2.7.3. Emergency Lighting
(1) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
(2) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
(3) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
(4) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7] 3.2.7.4. Emergency Power for Lighting
(1) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
(2) [F30,F81-OS3.1] [F10,F81-OS3.7]
3.2.7.5. Emergency Power Supply Installation
3-210 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
(1)
[F81,F06,F11,F02,F03,F10,F12-OS1.2,OS1.5] [F81,F06,F02,F03-OP1.2] [F81,F06,F02-OP3.1]
[F81,F30-OS3.1] [F81,F11,F10,F12-OS3.7]
3.2.7.6. Emergency Power for Treatment Occupancies
(1)
[F81,F06,F11,F02,F03,F10,F12-OS1.2,OS1.5] [F81,F06,F02,F03-OP1.2] [F81,F06,F02-OP3.1]
[F81,F30-OS3.1] [F81,F11,F10,F12-OS3.7]
3.2.7.7. Fuel Supply Shut-off Valves
(1)
[F12-OS1.1,OS1.2] Applies to the requirement for a suitably identified shut-off valve outside the building.
[F12-OP1.2] Applies to the requirement for a suitably identified shut-off valve outside the building.
[F12-OH5] Applies to the requirement for a suitably identified shut-off valve outside the building.
[F81-OS1.2,OS1.5] Applies to the requirement for a suitably identified separate shut-off valve.
[F81-OS3.1,OS3.7] Applies to the requirement for a suitably identified separate shut-off valve.
3.2.7.8. Emergency Power for Fire Alarm Systems
(1) [F11-OS1.5] [F13-OS1.5,OS1.2]
[F13-OP1.2] Applies to the requirement for fire alarm systems, including those with a voice communication system, to be provided with an emergency power supply.
                                                                                     © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
3.10.1.1.
(2) [F11-OS1.5] [F13-OP1.2]
(3) [F11-OS1.5] [F13-OP1.2]
(4) [F13-OP1.2] [F11-OS1.5]
[F13-OS1.2,OS1.5] [F13-OS1.5,OS1.2]
[F13-OS1.2,OS1.5]
Table 3.10.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
Table 3.10.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
3.2.8.4. Vestibules
(1) [F06-OS1.2] [F05-OS1.5] [F06,F03-OP1.2]
3.2.8.5. Protected Floor Space
(1) [F05-OS1.2] [F06-OS1.5]
3.2.8.6. Draft Stops
(1) [F02-OS1.2] [F11-OS1.5] [F13-OS1.5,OS1.2] [F02,F13-OP1.2]
3.2.8.7. Mechanical Exhaust System
(1) [F03-OS1.5,OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
(2) [F12-OS1.5,OS1.2] [F12-OP1.2]
3.2.8.8. Combustible Content Limits
(1) [F02-OS1.2] [F02-OP1.2]
3.2.9.1. Testing
(1) [F02,F81,F82-OS1.2,OS1.5] [F02,F81,F82-OP1.2]
3.3.1.1. Separation of Suites
(1) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2] (3) [F02-OS1.2] [F02-OP1.2] (4) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
3.3.1.2. Hazardous Substances, Equipment and Processes
(1) [F01,F02,F03-OS1.1,OS1.2] [F01,F02,F03-OP1.1,OP1.2]
[F43-OS3.4] (3) [F43-OS3.7] [F05-OS1.5]
3.3.1.3. Means of Egress
(3) [F10-OS3.7]
(4) [F10,F12,F05,F06-OS3.7] (5) [F10,F12-OS3.7]
(6) [F10,F12,F05,F06-OS3.7] (7) [F10,F12,F05,F06-OS3.7] (8) [F05-OS1.5]
(9) [F10,F12,F05,F06-OS3.7] (10) [F10,F12,-OS3.7]
3.2.7.9. Emergency Power for Building Services
(1) [F12,F02,F03-OS1.5,OS1.2] [F12,F02,F03-OP1.2]
(b) [F02-OP3.1]
(a) [F36-OS3.6] [F12,F10-OS3.7]
(2) [F12-OS1.5,OS1.2]
[F12-OP1.2]
[F36-OS3.6] [F12-OS3.7]
(4) [F81-OS2.3]
3.2.7.10. Protection of Electrical Conductors
(2) [F06-OS1.2,OS1.5] [F06-OP1.2]
(3) [F06-OS1.2,OS1.5] [F06-OP1.2]
(4) [F06-OS1.2,OS1.5] [F06-OP1.2]
(6) [F06-OS1.2,OS1.5] [F06-OP1.2]
(8) [F06-OS1.2,OS1.5] [F06-OP1.2]
(10) [F06-OS1.4] [F06-OP1.2] [F10-OS3.7]
3.2.8.1. Application
(1) [F03,F06-OS1.2] [F05-OS1.5] [F03,F06-OP1.2]
(4) [F10, F12-OS1.5]
3.2.8.2. Exceptions to Special Protection
(3) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
(5) [F02,F03-OS1.2] [F02,F03-OP1.2]
3.2.8.3. Sprinklers
(1) [F02-OS1.2] [F02-OP1.2]
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division B
3-211
                                                                                      © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.10.1.1.
Division B
Table 3.10.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
3.3.1.4. Public Corridor Separations
Table 3.10.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
(5) [F10-OS3.7] [F73-OA1]
(8) [F12-OS3.7]
(9) [F12-OS3.7]
(10) [F12-OS3.7]
3.3.1.14. Ramps and Stairways (3) [F30-OS3.1]
3.3.1.16. Tapered Treads in a Curved Flight
(2) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
(3) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
(4) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
3.3.1.17. Capacity of Access to Exits
(2) [F10-OS3.7]
(3) [F10-OS3.7]
(4) [F10-OS3.7]
(6) [F10-OS3.7] 3.3.1.18. Guards
(1) [F30-OS3.1]
(2) [F30-OS3.1]
(3) [F30-OS3.1]
(4) [F30-OS3.1]
3.3.1.19. Transparent Doors and Panels
(1) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
(2) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
(3) [F20-OS3.1]
(4) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
(6) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7] (8) [F30-OS3.1]
3.3.1.20. Exhaust Ventilation and Explosion Venting
(1) [F01-OS1.1]
(2) (a) [F02-OS1.2] (a) [F02-OP1.2]
(3) [F02-OS1.3] Applies to the requirement for explosion-relief devices and vents.
[F02-OP1.3] Applies to the requirement for explosion-relief devices and vents.
3.3.1.21. Janitors’ Rooms
(1) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2] (3) [F02-OS1.2] [F02-OP1.2]
3.3.1.22. Common Laundry Rooms
(1) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
(1) [F03,F05-OS1.5] [F03,F06-OP1.2]
(2) [F03,F05-OS1.5] [F03,F06-OP1.2]
(3) [F03,F05-OS1.5] [F03,F06-OP1.2]
[F06-OS1.5,OS1.2] [F06-OS1.5,OS1.2] [F06-OS1.2,OS1.5]
(4) (a),(b) [F03,F05,F10-OS1.5] [F06,F12-OS1.2,OS1.5] (c) [F03,F05-OS1.5] [F03,F06-OS1.5,OS1.2]
(a),(b) [F03,F06,F12-OP1.2] (c) [F03,F06-OP1.2]
3.3.1.5. Egress Doorways
(1) [F10,F05-OS1.5]
(2) [F05,F10-OS1.5]
3.3.1.6. Travel Distance
(1) [F10-OS1.5]
3.3.1.7. Protection on Floor Areas with a Barrier-Free Path of Travel
(1) [F10,F05-OS1.5] (a) [F06-OS1.5]
(2) [F03-OS1.2] [F06-OS1.5]
(4) (a) [F10,F73-OS1.5]
(b),(c) [F10-OS1.5]
3.3.1.9. Corridors
(1) [F10,F12-OS3.7]
(2) [F10,F12-OS3.7]
(3) [F30,F73-OS3.1]
(5) [F10,F12-OS3.7]
(6) (a) [F10,F12-OS3.7]
(b) [F05-OS1.5] [F06-OS1.5,OS1.2]
3.3.1.11. Door Swing
(1) [F10-OS3.7]
(2) [F10-OS3.7]
(3) [F10-OS3.7]
(4) [F10-OS3.7]
3.3.1.12. Sliding Doors
(1) (b) [F10-OS3.7]
3.3.1.13. Doors and Door Hardware
(1) (a),(b) [F10,F12-OS3.7]
(c) [F10-OS3.7] [F30-OS3.1]
(d) [F10-OS3.7]
(2) [F10-OS3.7]
(3) [F10-OS3.7]
(4) [F10-OS3.7]
3-212 Division B
Amended Page
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
                                                                                       © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
3.10.1.1.
Table 3.10.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
(3) [F02-OS1.2] [F02-OP1.2]
3.3.1.23. Obstructions
(1) [F10-OS3.7]
3.3.1.24. Signs in Service Spaces
(1) [F10-OS3.7]
3.3.1.25. Welding and Cutting
(1) [F03,F02-OS1.2] [F03,F02-OP1.2]
3.3.2.1. Scope
(2) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
(3) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
3.3.2.2. Fire Separations (1) [F03-OS1.2]
(3) [F03-OS1.2] Applies where space under tiers of seats is not sprinklered.
[F03-OS1.2] Applies where space under tiers of seats is sprinklered.
3.3.2.4. Fixed Seats
Table 3.10.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
3.3.2.8. Fixed Bench-Type Seats without Arms
(1) [F10-OS3.7] [F10-OS3.7]
3.3.2.10. Handrails in Aisles with Steps
(1) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
(2) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7] 3.3.2.11. Outdoor Places of Assembly (1) [F10-OS3.7]
(2) [F10-OS3.7]
(3) [F10-OS3.7]
(5) [F10-OS3.7]
3.3.2.12. Bleachers
(1) [F10-OS3.7] [F30-OS3.1]
(2) [F10-OS3.7] [F30-OS3.1]
(4) [F10-OS3.7] [F30-OS3.1]
(5) [F30-OS3.1]
3.3.2.13. Libraries
(1) [F03-OS1.2]
[F03-OP1.2]
(2) [F02-OS1.2] [F02-OP1.2]
3.3.2.14. Stages for Theatrical Performances
(1) [F02-OS1.2] [F02-OP1.2]
(2) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
(3) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
(4) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
(5) [F02-OS1.2] [F06-OS1.2,OS1.5] [F02,F06-OP1.2]
(6) [F03-OS1.2,OS1.5] [F03-OP1.2]
3.3.2.16. Storage Rooms
(1) [F12-OS1.2] [F12-OP1.2]
3.3.3.2. Separations between Care, Treatment or Detention Occupancies and Repair Garages
(1) [F44-OS3.4] [F03-OS1.2]
3.3.3.3. Corridors
(1) [F10-OS3.7]
(1) [F30-OS3.1] (3) [F10-OS3.7] 3.3.2.5. Aisles
(2) [F10-OS3.7]
(4) [F10-OS3.7]
(5) [F10-OS3.7]
(6) [F10-OS3.7]
(7) [F10-OS3.7]
(8) [F10-OS3.7]
(9) [F10-OS3.7]
(10) [F10-OS3.7]
(11) [F10-OS3.7]
(12) [F10-OS3.7]
(13) [F10-OS3.7]
(14) [F10-OS3.7]
(15) [F10-OS3.7]
(16) [F10-OS3.7]
3.3.2.6. Corridors
(1) [F03,F05-OS1.5] [F06-OS1.5,OS1.2]
[F03,F06-OP1.2]
(3) [F03,F05-OS1.5] [F06-OS1.5,OS1.2]
[F03,F06-OP1.2]
(4) [F10-OS3.7]
3.3.2.7. Doors
(1) [F10-OS3.7]
[F10-OS3.7]
[F30-OS3.1] [F30-OS3.1] [F30-OS3.1] [F30-OS3.1] [F30-OS3.1] [F30-OS3.1] [F30-OS3.1] [F30-OS3.1] [F30-OS3.1]
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division B
3-213
                                                                                        © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.10.1.1.
Division B
Table 3.10.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
(2) [F10-OS3.7]
(3) [F10,F12-OS3.7]
(4) (a) [F10-OS3.7]
(b) [F10,F12-OS3.7]
3.3.3.4. Doorway Width
(1) [F10,F12-OS3.7]
(2) [F10,F12-OS3.7]
3.3.3.5. Compartments and Fire Separations (2) [F05-OS1.5] [F06-OS1.5,OS1.2]
[F06-OP1.2]
(4) [F05-OS1.2] [F06-OS1.2,OS1.5]
[F03,F06-OP1.2]
(6) [F10-OS1.5]
(7) [F10-OS1.5]
(8) [F03,F05-OS1.2] [F06-OS1.5]
(12) [F03,F05-OS1.2] [F06-OS1.5] 3.3.3.6. Areas of Refuge
(1) [F03-OS1.2]
3.3.3.7. Contained Use Areas
(2) [F03-OS1.2] [F06-OS1.5,OS1.2] [F03,F06-OP1.2]
(3) [F02-OS1.2] [F06-OS1.5,OS1.2] [F02,F06-OP1.2]
(4) [F02-OS1.2] [F06-OS1.5,OS1.2] [F02,F06-OP1.2]
(5) [F10-OS3.7]
3.3.3.8. Means of Egress from Care Occupancies
(1) [F36-OS1.5]
3.3.4.2. Fire Separations
(1) [F03-OS1.2] [F05-OS1.5] [F06-OS1.5,OS1.2] [F03,F06-OP1.2]
(4) [F02,F03-OS1.2] [F44-OS1.1] (a),(b) [F02,F03-OP1.2]
(5) [F03-OS1.2] [F01-OS1.1] (a) [F03-OP1.2]
[F44-OS3.4]
3.3.4.3. Storage Rooms
(1) [F02-OS1.2] [F02-OP1.2]
(2) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
(4) [F12-OS1.2] [F12-OP1.2]
Table 3.10.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
3.3.4.4. Egress from Dwelling Units
(2) [F10,F05-OS3.7]
(3) [F10-OS3.7]
(4) [F05-OS1.2,OS1.5]
(5) [F10,F05-OS3.7]
(6) [F10,F05-OS3.7]
3.3.4.5. Automatic Locking Prohibition (1) [F10-OS3.7]
3.3.4.8. Protection of Openable Windows
(1) [F30-OS3.1]
3.3.5.2. Fire Extinguishing Systems
(1) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2] 3.3.5.3. Basements
(1) [F12-OS1.2,OS1.5] [F01-OS1.1] [F12-OP1.2]
(2) [F06-OS1.5,OS1.2] Applies to the separation of entrances to basements and to rooms containing building services from the remainder of the building.
[F06-OP1.2] Applies to the separation of entrances from the remainder of the building.
[F05-OS1.5] [F06-OS1.2,OS1.5] Applies to the separation of exits from the remainder of the building.
[F06-OP1.2] Applies to the separation of exits from the remainder of the building.
(3) [F44-OS1.1]
3.3.5.4. Repair and Storage Garages
(2) [F30-OS3.1] [F10,F12-OS3.7]
(5) [F30-OS3.1]
(6) [F30-OS3.1]
(8) [F02-OS1.2]
[F02-OP1.2]
3.3.5.5. Repair Garage Separation
(1) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
3.3.5.6. Storage Garage Separation
(1) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2] 3.3.5.7. Vestibules (4) [F44-OS3.4] [F44-OS1.1]
3.3.5.8. Dispensing of Fuel
(1) [F01-OS1.1]
(2) [F01-OS1.1]
3-214 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
                                                                                      © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
3.10.1.1.
Table 3.10.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
3.3.5.9. Multiple-Tenant Self-Storage Warehouses
(1) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
3.3.6.2. Storage of Dangerous Goods
(1) [F03-OP1.2] [F03-OS1.2]
(2) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
(3) [F01,F02,F03,F81-OS1.1,OS1.2] [F01,F02,F03,F81-OP1.1,OP1.2]
(4) [F01-OS1.1] [F01-OP1.1]
3.3.6.3. Indoor Storage of Anhydrous Ammonia and Flammable, Toxic and Oxidizing Gases
(1) (a) [F03-OS1.2] [F44-OS1.1] (a) [F03-OP1.2]
(a) [F44-OS1.2,OS1.5,OS1.1] Applies to gas-tight fire separations.
(b) [F12-OS1.2] [F01-OS1.1] [F02-OS1.3] (b) [F02-OP1.3]
(c) [F12-OS1.1]
(d) [F44-OS1.1]
(2) (a) [F03-OP1.2]
(a) [F03-OS1.2] [F44-OS1.1]
(a) [F44-OS1.2,OS1.5,OS1.1] Applies to gas-tight fire separations.
(b) [F12-OS1.2] [F01-OS1.1] (c) [F12-OS1.1]
(d) [F44-OS1.1]
3.3.6.4. Storage and Dispensing Rooms for Flammable Liquids and Combustible Liquids
(1) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
(2) [F02-OS1.3] [F02-OP1.3]
3.3.6.5. Tire Storage
(1) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
3.3.6.6. Ammonium Nitrate Storage
(2) [F01-OS1.1] [F02,F12-OS1.2] [F01-OP1.1] [F02,F12-OP1.2]
(3) [F03-OS1.2] [F01-OS1.1] [F03-OP1.2] [F01-OP1.1]
Table 3.10.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
(4) [F12,F02-OS1.1] [F12,F02-OP1.2]
(5) [F44-OH5]
[F01-OS1.1] [F02-OS1.2]
[F43-OS3.4]
(6) [F01,F81-OS1.1]
3.3.6.7. Flooring Materials
(1) [F43-OS3.4] [F44-OH5]
[F01-OS1.1]
3.3.6.8. Fire Separations in Process Plants
(1) [F03-OP1.2] [F03-OS1.2]
3.3.6.9. Basements and Pits
(1) [F01-OS1.1] [F01-OP1.1]
3.4.1.2. Separation of Exits
(1) [F10,F12,F05,F06-OS3.7] [F12,F06-OP1.2]
[F12,F06-OS1.5,OS1.2]
(2) [F10-OS3.7]
3.4.1.5. Exterior Exit Passageways
(1) [F10-OS3.7]
3.4.1.6. Restricted Use of Horizontal Exits
(1) [F10-OS3.7]
(2) [F10,F05-OS3.7]
3.4.1.7. Slide Escapes
(1) [F10-OS3.7]
3.4.1.9. Mirrors near Exits
(1) [F10-OS3.7] [F30-OS3.1] 3.4.1.10. Combustible Glazing in Exits (1) [F05-OS1.2] [F06-OS1.2,OS1.5]
[F03,F06-OP1.2]
3.4.2.1. Minimum Number of Exits
(1) [F10,F12,F05,F06-OS3.7] [F12,F06-OS1.2]
[F12,F06-OP1.2] (3) [F10-OS3.7]
3.4.2.2. Means of Egress from Mezzanines
(1) [F05-OS1.5]
3.4.2.3. Distance between Exits
(1) [F10,F05-OS1.5] (4) [F10-OS3.7]
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Amended Page Division B 3-215
                                                                                      © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.10.1.1.
Division B
Table 3.10.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
3.4.2.4. Travel Distance
(3) [F10-OS3.7]
3.4.2.5. Location of Exits
(1) [F10-OS3.7]
(3) [F10-OS3.7]
3.4.2.6. Principal Entrances
(1) [F10-OS3.7]
(2) [F10-OS3.7]
3.4.3.1. Exit Width Based on Occupant Load (2) [F10-OS3.7]
3.4.3.2. Exit Width
(1) [F10-OS3.7]
(2) [F10-OS3.7]
(3) [F10-OS3.7]
(6) [F10-OS3.7]
(7) [F10-OS3.7]
(8) [F12,F10-OS3.7] [F30-OS3.1]
[F12-OP1.2]
[F12-OS1.2]
3.4.3.3. Exit Width Reduction
(1) [F10,F12-OS3.7] [F30-OS3.1] [F12-OP1.2]
[F12-OS1.2]
(2) [F10,F12-OS3.7]
[F12-OP1.2]
[F12-OS1.2]
(3) [F10,F12-OS3.7]
[F12-OP1.2]
[F12-OS1.2]
(4) [F10,F12-OS3.7]
[F12-OP1.2]
[F12-OS1.2]
3.4.3.4. Clear Height
(1) [F30-OS3.1] [F10,F12-OS3.7] [F12-OP1.2]
[F12-OS1.2]
(4) [F30-OS3.1] [F10,F12-OS3.7]
[F12-OP1.2]
[F12-OS1.2]
(5) [F30-OS3.1] [F10,F12-OS3.7]
[F12-OP1.2] [F12-OS1.2]
Table 3.10.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
3.4.4.1. Fire-Resistance Rating of Exit Separations
(1) [F05-OS1.5] [F06-OS1.5,OS1.2] [F03-OS1.2] [F06,F03-OP1.2]
3.4.4.2. Exits through Lobbies
(1) [F05,F06-OS1.5]
(2) [F12,F10,F05,F06-OS1.5]
3.4.4.3. Exterior Passageway Exceptions (1) [F05,F06,F10-OS1.5]
3.4.4.4. Integrity of Exits
(1) [F05-OS1.5] [F06-OS1.5,OS1.2] [F03-OS1.2]
[F06,F03-OP1.2]
(2) [F05-OS1.5] [F06-OS1.5,OS1.2]
[F06-OP1.2]
(3) [F05-OS1.5] [F06-OS1.5,OS1.2]
[F06-OP1.2]
(4) [F05-OS1.5] [F06-OS1.5,OS1.2]
[F06-OP1.2]
[F43-OS3.7]
(5) [F05-OS1.5] [F06-OS1.5,OS1.2] [F03-OS1.2]
[F03,F06-OP1.2]
(6) [F10,F12-OS3.7] [F30-OS3.1] [F31-OS3.2] [F32-OS3.3] [F43-OS3.4]
[F10,F05-OS1.5] [F12-OS1.5,OS1.2]
[F12-OP1.2]
(7) [F05-OS1.5] [F06-OS1.5,OS1.2]
[F06-OP1.2]
[F43-OS3.7]
(8) [F05-OS1.5] [F06-OS1.5,OS1.2]
[F06-OP1.2]
(9) [F05-OS1.5] [F06-OS1.5,OS1.2]
[F06-OP1.2]
3.4.5.1. Exit Signs
(1) [F10-OS3.7]
(2) [F10-OS3.7]
(3) [F10,F81-OS3.7]
(4) [F10,F81-OS3.7]
(5) [F10-OS3.7]
(6) [F10-OS3.7]
(7) [F10-OS3.7]
3.4.5.2. Signs for Stairs and Ramps at Exit Level (1) [F10-OS3.7]
3-216 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
                                                                                      © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
3.10.1.1.
Table 3.10.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
3.4.6.1. Slip Resistance of Ramps and Stairs
(1) (a) [F10-OS3.7] [F30-OS3.1] (b) [F10-OS3.7] [F30-OS3.1]
(2) [F10,F12-OS3.7] [F30-OS3.1] [F12-OP1.2]
[F12-OS1.2,OS1.5]
3.4.6.2. Minimum Number of Risers
(1) [F30-OS3.1]
3.4.6.3. Maximum Vertical Rise of Stair Flights and Required Landings
(1) [F10-OS3.7]
(2) [F10-OS3.7] [F30-OS3.1]
(3) [F10,F12-OS3.7] [F30-OS3.1]
3.4.6.4. Dimensions of Landings
(1) [F10,F12-OS3.7] [F30-OS3.1]
[F12-OP1.2]
[F12-OS1.2,OS1.5]
(2) [F10,F12-OS3.7] [F30-OS3.1]
[F12-OP1.2]
Table 3.10.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
(7) [F30-OS3.1]
3.4.6.7. Ramp Slope
(1) [F10-OS3.7] [F30-OS3.1]
3.4.6.8. Treads and Risers
[F12-OS1.2,OS1.5]
(4) [F10,F12-OS3.7] [F30-OS3.1]
(5) [F10,F12-OS3.7] [F30-OS3.1]
3.4.6.5. Handrails
(1) [F10-OS3.7]
(2) [F10-OS3.7]
(3) [F10-OS3.7]
(4) [F10-OS3.7]
(5) [F30-OS3.1]
(7) [F30-OS3.1]
(9) [F10-OS3.7]
(10) [F30-OS3.1]
3.4.6.9. Curved Flights in Exits
(1) [F10-OS3.7] [F30-OS3.1]
(2) [F10-OS3.7] [F30-OS3.1]
(3) [F10-OS3.7] [F30-OS3.1]
(4) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
3.4.6.10. Horizontal Exits
(1) [F10-OS3.7]
(2) [F10-OS3.7]
(4) [F10,F73-OS3.7]
(5) [F10-OS3.7]
3.4.6.11. Doors
(1) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
(2) [F10-OS3.7] [F30-OS3.1]
(3) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7] Applies to portion of Code text: “No exit door shall open directly onto a step ...”
[F81,F10-OS3.7] Applies where there is a danger of blockage from ice or snow.
(4) [F10-OS3.7]
(5) [F10,F12-OS3.7]
(6) [F10-OS3.7]
3.4.6.12. Direction of Door Swing
(1) [F10-OS3.7]
3.4.6.13. Self-closing Devices
(1) [F05-OS1.5] [F06-OS1.5,OS1.2]
[F06,F03-OP1.2]
3.4.6.14. Sliding Doors
(2) [F12-OS3.7]
[F73-OA1]
(11) [F30-OS3.1]
(12) [F30-OS3.1]
[F73-OA1]
(13) [F30-OS3.1]
(15) [F30-OS3.1]
3.4.6.6. Guards
(1) [F30-OS3.1]
(2) [F30-OS3.1]
(4) [F30-OS3.1]
(5) [F30-OS3.1]
(6) [F30-OS3.1]
[F10-OS3.7] [F10-OS3.7]
[F10-OS3.7] [F10-OS3.7]
[F10-OS3.7] [F10-OS3.7] [F10-OS3.7]
[F30-OS3.1] [F30-OS3.1] [F30-OS3.1] [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7] [F10-OS3.7] [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division B
3-217
(1) [F10-OS3.7] (2) [F10-OS3.7] (3) [F10-OS3.7]
[F73-OA1] (4) [F10-OS3.7] (5) [F30-OS3.1] (6) [F30-OS3.1] (7) [F30-OS3.1] (8) [F30-OS3.1] (9) [F10-OS3.7] (10) [F30-OS3.1]
[F30-OS3.1] [F30-OS3.1] [F30-OS3.1]
[F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7] [F10-OS3.7] [F10-OS3.7]
[F30-OS3.1]
                                                                                      © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.10.1.1.
Division B
Table 3.10.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
3.4.6.15. Revolving Doors
(1) (a) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7] (b) [F10,F12-OS3.7]
(c) [F10-OS3.7]
(d) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7] (e) [F20-OS3.1]
(2) [F10-OS3.7]
(3) (a),(b),(d),(e) [F10,F81-OS3.7] [F20,F30-OS3.1]
3.4.6.16. Door Release Hardware
(1) [F10-OS3.7]
(2) [F10-OS3.7]
(3) [F10-OS3.7]
(4) [F10,F81-OS3.7]
(5) [F10,F81-OS3.7]
(6) [F10-OS3.7]
(7) [F10-OS3.7]
(9) [F10-OS3.7]
[F73-OA1]
3.4.6.17. Security for Banks and Mercantile Floor Areas
(1) [F02-OS1.2] Applies to sprinklered buildings. [F10,F81-OS3.7] Applies to exit and egress doors that comply
with the stated Sentences.
(2) [F10-OS3.7]
(3) [F81-OS3.7]
(5) [F10-OS1.5]
(6) [F10-OS3.7]
(9) [F10,F81-OS3.7]
3.4.6.18. Emergency Crossover Access to Floor Areas (1) [F10-OS3.7]
(3) [F10-OS3.7]
(4) [F10-OS3.7] [F12-OS3.7] [F12-OP1.2]
[F12-OS1.2,OS1.5]
(5) [F10-OS3.7]
3.4.6.19. Floor Numbering
(1) [F10,F12,F73-OS3.7] [F73-OA1]
[F12-OP1.2]
[F12-OS1.2]
3.4.7.1. Scope
(1) [F10,F12-OS3.7]
(2)
Table 3.10.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
[F10-OS3.7] [F30-OS3.1]
[F10-OS1.5] [F12-OS1.2]
3-218 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
3.4.7.2. Fire Escape Construction
(1) [F05-OS1.5] [F06-OS1.2] Applies to the combustibility of materials used in the construction of fire escapes.
[F10,F12-OS3.7] [F20-OS3.1] Applies to the type and construction of fire escapes.
[F20-OS2.1] Applies to the type and construction of fire escapes.
3.4.7.3. Access to Fire Escapes
(1) [F10-OS3.7] Applies to portion of Code text: “Access to fire escapes shall be from corridors through doors at floor level ...”
(2) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
3.4.7.4. Protection of Fire Escapes
(1) [F05,F06-OS1.5]
3.4.7.5. Stairs
(1) [F10-OS3.7]
(2) [F10-OS3.7]
(3) [F10-OS3.7] Applies to the reduction in width permitted under certain conditions.
(4) [F10-OS3.7] [F30-OS3.1]
3.4.7.6. Guards and Railings
(1) [F10-OS3.7] [F30-OS3.1]
(2) [F10-OS3.7] [F30-OS3.1]
(3) [F10-OS3.7] [F30-OS3.1]
(4) [F30-OS3.1]
(5) [F30-OS3.1]
3.5.2.1. Elevators, Escalators and Dumbwaiters
(1) [F30,F81-OS3.1] [F32,F81-OS3.3] [F36,F81-OS3.6]
(3) [F73-OA1]
(4) [F74-OA2]
3.5.3.1. Fire Separations for Hoistways of Elevators and Lifts for Persons with Physical Disabilities
(1) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
3.5.3.2. Vertical Service Spaces for Dumbwaiters
(1) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
3.5.3.3. Fire Separations for Machine Rooms of Elevators or Lifts for Persons with Physical Disabilities
(1) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
(2) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
                                                                                  © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
3.10.1.1.
Table 3.10.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
3.5.4.1. Elevator Car Dimensions
(1) [F12-OS3.7]
(2) [F12-OS3.7]
3.5.4.2. Floor Numbering
(1) [F73-OA1]
3.5.5.1. Referenced Standards (1) [F30, F81-OS3.1]
[F30-OS2.3]
3.6.1.2. Electrical Wiring and Equipment
(1) [F01-OS1.1] [F02,F03-OS1.2] [F81-OS1.4] [F01-OP1.1] [F02,F03-OP1.2] [F81-OP1.4] [F32-OS3.3]
3.6.1.3. Lightning Protection Systems
(1) [F01,F81-OS1.1] [F01,F81-OP1.1]
3.6.1.4. Storage Use Prohibition
(1) [F01-OS1.1] [F02-OS1.2]
3.6.1.5. Appliances Installed outside a Building
(1) [F03-OS1.2] (b) [F03-OP1.2] (a) [F03-OP3.1]
3.6.2.1. Fire Separations around Service Rooms
(1) [F03-OS1.2,OS1.4] [F03-OP1.2,OP1.4]
(3) [F01-OS1.1] [F03-OS1.2] [F01-OP1.1] [F03-OP1.2]
(4) [F03-OS1.2,OS1.4] [F03-OP1.2,OP1.4]
(5) [F03-OS1.2,OS1.4] [F03-OP1.2,OP1.4]
(6) [F03-OS1.2,OS1.4] [F03-OP1.2,OP1.4]
(7) [F03-OS1.2,OS1.4] [F03-OP1.2,OP1.4]
3.6.2.2. Service Rooms under Exits
(1) [F06,F05-OS3.7] [F02-OS1.2]
3.6.2.4. Incinerator Rooms
(1) [F02-OS1.2]
3.6.2.5. Combustible Refuse Storage
(1) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
Table 3.10.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
3.6.2.6. Door Swing for Service Rooms
(1) [F10-OS1.5] Applies to portion of Code text: “A swing-type door from a service room containing a boiler or incinerator shall swing outward from the room ...”
3.6.2.7. Electrical Equipment Vaults
(2) [F03-OS1.2,OS1.4] [F03-OP1.2,OP1.4]
(3) [F02-OS1.2] [F11-OS1.5] [F03-OS1.4] [F02-OP1.2] [F03-OP1.4]
(4) [F03-OS1.2,OS1.4] [F03-OP1.2,OP1.4]
(6) [F81-OS1.1]
(7) [F03-OS1.2]
(8) [F44-OS1.1] [F03-OS1.2]
(9) [F34-OS1.1]
[F34-OS3.3]
[F34-OP1.1]
3.6.2.8. Emergency Power Installations
(1) [F03-OS1.2,OS1.4] [F06-OS1.2,OS1.5] [F03-OP1.2,OP1.4] [F06-OP1.2]
3.6.3.1. Fire Separations for Vertical Service Spaces
(1) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
(2) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
(3) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
(4) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
(5) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
(6) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
3.6.3.2. Foamed Plastic Protection
(1) [F02-OS1.2]
3.6.3.3. Linen and Refuse Chutes
(1) (d),(e) [F02-OS1.2]
(a),(b),(c) [F41-OH2.4,OH2.5]
(2) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
(3) [F03-OS1.2]
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division B
3-219
            [F30-OS3.1] Applies to portion of Code text: “A swing-type door from a service room containing a boiler or incinerator shall swing ... inward if the door opens onto a corridor or any room used for an assembly occupancy.”
                                                                             © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.10.1.1.
Division B
Table 3.10.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
(4) (b) [F03-OS1.2]
(a) [F41-OH2.4,OH2.5]
(5) (a) [F81,F03-OS1.2]
(a) [F81,F41-OH2.4,OH2.5]
(a) [F81,F03-OP1.2]
(b) [F03-OS1.2]
(b) [F03-OP1.2]
(c) [F01,F02-OS1.2]
(c) [F01,F02-OP1.2]
(d) [F05-OS1.5] [F06-OS1.5,OS1.2] (d) [F06-OP1.2]
(6) (a) [F81, F03-OS1.2] [F81, F41-OH2.4, OH2.5]
[F81, F03-OP1.2]
(b) [F03-OS1.2]
[F03-OP1.2]
(c) [F05-OS1.5] [F06-OS1.5, OS1.2] [F06-OP1.2]
(d) [F11-OS1.5] (e) [F01-OS1.1] [F01-OP1.1]
(7) [F02-OS1.2] [F02-OP1.2]
(8) [F03-OS1.2] [F03,OP1.2]
(9) [F02-OS1.2]
[F41-OH2.4,OH2.5]
(10) [F03-OS1.2]
[F03-OP1.2]
Table 3.10.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
3.6.4.2. Fire Separations for Horizontal Service Spaces
(2) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
3.6.4.3. Plenum Requirements
(1) [F02-OS1.2]
(2) [F03-OS1.2,OS1.3]
[F03-OP1.2,OP1.3]
3.6.4.4. Attic or Roof Space Access
(1) [F01,F02,F12-OS1.2] [F01,F02,F12-OP1.2]
3.6.4.5. Horizontal Service Space Access
(1) [F01,F02,F12-OS1.2] [F01,F02,F12-OP1.2]
3.6.4.6. Crawl Space Access
(1) [F01,F02,F12-OS1.2] [F01,F02,F12-OP1.2]
3.6.5.1. Duct Materials
(1) [F01,F02-OS1.2]
(2) [F02-OS1.2]
(4) [F02-OS1.2]
(5) [F02-OS1.2]
3.6.5.2. Vibration Isolation Connectors
(1) [F01,F02-OS1.2]
(2) [F02-OS1.2]
3.6.5.3. Tape
(1) [F02-OS1.2]
3.6.5.4. Coverings, Linings, Adhesives and Insulation
(1) [F02-OS1.2]
(2) [F02-OS1.2]
(3) [F02-OS1.2]
(4) [F02-OS1.2]
(5) [F02-OS1.2]
(6) [F02-OS1.2]
(7) [F01,F02-OS1.2]
3.6.5.5. Insulation and Coverings
(1) [F01,F02-OS1.2]
(2) [F02-OS1.2]
(3) [F02-OS1.2]
(4) [F02-OS1.2]
3.6.5.6. Clearance of Ducts and Plenums
(2) [F01-OS1.2]
(3) [F01-OS1.2]
(4) [F01-OS1.2]
(12) [F01, F02-OS1.2]
3.6.3.4. Exhaust Duct Negative Pressure
(1) [F03-OS1.2]
3-220 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
                                                               (11)
     [F81, F03–OS1.2] Applies to portion of Code text: “The room or bin into which a refuse chute discharges shall be of sufficient size to contain the refuse between normal intervals of emptying ...”
  [F81, F41–OH2.4, OH2.5] Applies to portion of Code text: “The room or bin into which a refuse chute discharges shall be of sufficient size to contain the refuse between normal intervals of emptying ...”
  [F41–OH2.4, OH2.5] Applies to portion of Code text: “The room or bin into which a refuse chute discharges shall be ... impervious to moisture and be equipped with a water connection and floor drain for washing-down purposes.”
                    © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
3.10.1.1.
Table 3.10.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
(5) [F01-OS1.2]
3.6.5.7. Supply, Return, Intake and Exhaust-Air Openings
(1) [F02-OS1.2]
3.6.5.8. Return-Air System
(1) [F02-OS1.2]
(2) [F01,F02-OS1.2]
(3) [F01,F02-OS1.2]
(4) [F01,F02-OS1.2]
3.7.1.1. Room and Space Height
(1) [F30-OS3.1]
3.7.2.1. Plumbing and Drainage Systems
(1) [F72-OH2.1]
(2) [F72-OH2.1]
3.7.2.2. Water Closets
(1) [F72-OH2.1] Applies to portion of Code text: “... water closets shall be provided ...”
(6) [F72-OH2.1]
(7) [F72-OH2.1]
(8) [F72-OH2.1]
(9) [F72-OH2.1]
(10) [F72-OH2.1]
(11) [F72-OH2.1]
(12) [F72-OH2.1]
(13) [F72-OH2.1]
(14) [F72-OH2.1]
(16) [F72-OH2.1]
(17) [F72-OH2.1]
3.7.2.3. Lavatories (1) [F71-OH2.3]
(3) [F30-OS3.1]
(4) [F71-OH2.3]
3.7.2.4. Mobile Home Facilities
(1) [F72-OH2.1] [F71-OH2.3]
(2) [F72-OH2.1]
(3) [F71-OH2.3] Applies to the minimum number of laundry trays or similar facilities, and of bathtubs or showers for each sex.
3.7.2.5. Safety Glass
(1) [F20-OS3.1]
3.7.2.6. Surface Protection
(1) [F72-OH2.1] [F40-OH2.4]
(2) [F72-OH2.1] [F40-OH2.4]
3.7.2.7. Floor Drain (1) [F40-OH2.4]
[F30-OS3.1]
(2)
(3)
Table 3.10.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
[F40-OH2.4] [F30-OS3.1] [F40-OH2.4] [F30-OS3.1]
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Amended Page Division B 3-221
3.7.2.8. Grab Bars
(1) [F20-OS3.1]
3.7.2.9. Bathtubs
(1) [F74-OA2]
(b) [F31-OS3.2]
(d) [F30-OS3.1]
3.7.3.1. Medical Gas Piping
(1) [F43,F81,F82-OS3.4] (b) [F01,F02-OS1.1] (b) [F01,F02-OP1.1]
3.8.2.2. Entrances
(1) [F73-OA1]
(2) [F73-OA1]
(5) [F73-OA1]
3.8.2.3. Areas Requiring a Barrier-Free Path of Travel (1) [F73-OA1]
(3) [F74-OA2]
3.8.2.4. Access to Storeys Served by Escalators and Moving Walks
(1) [F73-OA1]
(2) [F73-OA1]
3.8.2.5. Access to Parking Areas and Exterior Passenger-Loading Zones
(4) (b) [F73-OA1]
3.8.2.7. Power Door Operators
(1) [F73-OA1]
3.8.2.8. Plumbing Facilities
(1) [F74-OA2]
[F72-OH2.1] [F71-OH2.3]
(3) [F72-OH2.1] [F73-OA1]
3.8.2.10. Signs and Indicators
(1) [F74-OA2]
(2) [F74-OA2]
3.8.2.11. Counters and Counters for Telephones (1) [F74-OA2]
(2) [F74-OA2]
3.8.2.12. Hotels and motels
(1) [F73-OA1]
                                                                                       © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 3.10.1.1.
Division B
Table 3.10.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
3.8.3.2. Barrier-Free Path of Travel
(1) [F73-OA1]
(2) (a),(b) [F30-OS3.1]
(a),(b) [F73-OA1] (c),(d) [F73-OA1] (e),(f) [F73-OA1] (e),(f) [F30-OS3.1] (c),(d) [F30-OS3.1]
(4) [F73-OA1]
3.8.3.3. Exterior Walks
(1) (a) [F73-OA1] (a) [F30-OS3.1]
(b) [F73-OA1]
3.8.3.4. Parking Areas and Exterior Passenger-Loading Zones
(1) (a) [F74-OA2] (b) [F73-OA1] (c) [F74-OA2]
(2) [F73-OA1]
3.8.3.5. Ramps
(1) (b),(e) [F73-OA1] (d) [F30-OS3.1]
(c) [F73-OA1]
(d) [F73-OA1] (b),(e) [F30-OS3.1] (c) [F30-OS3.1]
(4) (a) [F73-OA1]
(b) and (c) [F30-OS3.1]
(5) [F30-OS3.1]
3.8.3.6. Doorways and Doors
(2) [F73-OA1]
(3) [F74-OA2]
(4) [F74-OA2]
[F10-OS3.7]
(5) [F74-OA2]
[F10-OS3.7]
(6) [F73-OA1]
(7) [F30-OS3.1]
(8) [F73-OA1]
(10) [F30-OS3.1]
[F73-OA1]
(11) [F73-OA1]
(12) [F30-OS3.1] [F73-OA1]
Table 3.10.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
(14) [F73-OA1]
3.8.3.7. Lifts for Persons with Physical Disabilities
(1) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7] (2) [F73-OA1]
[F74-OA2]
3.8.3.8. Controls
(1) [F74-OA2] [F10-OS3.7]
3.8.3.9. Accessibility Signs
(1) [F74-OA2] [F73-OA1]
3.8.3.10. Drinking Fountains
(1) [F74-OA2]
3.8.3.11. Water-Closet Stalls
(1) [F74-OA2] [F72-OH2.1]
(c)(i) [F74-OA2]
(e) and (f) [F30,F20-OS3.1]
(g) [F30-OS3.1] Applies to portion of Code text: “... be equipped with a coat hook ... projecting not more than 50 mm from the wall ...”
3.8.3.12. Universal Washrooms
(1) [F74-OA2]
(b) [F10-OS3.7]
(f) [F30-OS3.1] Applies to the requirement for a coat hook.
(h) [F74-OA2] Applies to the requirement for a shelf.
[F72-OH2.1] [F71-OH2.3]
(b) [F74-OA2] Applies to portion of Code text: “... b) ... a door capable of being locked from the inside ...”
3.8.3.13. Water Closets
(1) [F74-OA2] [F72-OH2.1]
3.8.3.14. Urinals
(1) [F74-OA2]
(f) [F30-OS3.1]
3.8.3.15. Lavatories and Mirrors
(1) [F74-OA2] [F71-OH2.3]
(e) [F31-OS3.2]
(2) [F74-OA2]
3-222 Division B
Amended Page
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
                                                                                    © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
3.10.1.1.
Table 3.10.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
3.8.3.16. Showers
(1) [F74-OA2]
(d),(e) [F30-OS3.1]
(f) [F30-OS3.1]
(h) [F31-OS3.2]
3.8.3.17. Bathtubs
(1) [F74-OA2]
3.8.3.18. Assistive Listening Devices
(1) [F74-OA2] [F11-OS3.7] 3.8.3.19. Counters
(1) [F74-OA2]
3.8.3.20. Shelves or Counters for Telephones
(1) [F74-OA2]
(2) [F74-OA2]
3.8.3.21. Spaces in Seating Area
(1) [F74-OA2] Applies to entire Sentence except for portion of Code text: “... without infringing on egress from any row of seating or any aisle requirements ...”
[F30-OS3.1] Applies to portion of Code text: “... level, or level with removable seats ...”
(d) [F10-OS3.7]
3.9.1.2. Application
(1) (d) [F02-OS1.1]
3.9.2.2. Spatial Separation
(2) [F12-OP3.1]
(3) [F56-OH3.1]
3.9.3.1. Safety Requirements Within Floor Areas
(2) [F02-OS1.2]
(3) [F03-OS1.2]
[F03-OP1.2]
(6) [F02-OP1.2]
3.9.3.2. Sanitary Facilities
(1) [F72-OH2.1] [F71-OH2.3]
Notes to Table 3.10.1.1.:
(1) See Parts 2 and 3 of Division A.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Amended Page
Division B
3-223
                                  © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council Division B
Notes to Part 3
Fire Protection, Occupant Safety and Accessibility
A-3 Application of Part 3. In applying the requirements of this Part, it is intended that they be applied with discretion to buildings of unusual configuration that do not clearly conform to the specific requirements, or to buildings in which processes are carried out which make compliance with particular requirements in this Part impracticable. The definition of “building” as it applies to this Code is general and encompasses most structures, including those which would not normally be considered as buildings in the layman’s sense. This occurs more often in industrial uses, particularly those involving manufacturing facilities and equipment that require specialized design that may make it impracticable to follow the specific requirements of this Part. Steel mills, aluminum plants, refining, power generation and liquid storage facilities are examples. A water tank or an oil refinery, for example, has no floor area, so it is obvious that requirements for exits from floor areas would not apply. Requirements for structural fire protection in large steel mills and pulp and paper mills, particularly in certain portions, may not be practicable to achieve in terms of the construction normally used and the operations for which the space is to be used. In other portions of the same building, however, it may be quite reasonable to require that the provisions of this Part be applied (e.g., the office portions). Similarly, areas of industrial occupancy which may be occupied only periodically by service staff, such as equipment penthouses, normally would not need to have the same type of exit facility as floor areas occupied on a continuing basis. It is expected that judgment will be exercised in evaluating the application of a requirement in those cases when extenuating circumstances require special consideration, provided the occupants’ safety is not endangered.
The provisions in this Part for fire protection features installed in buildings are intended to provide a minimum acceptable level of public safety. It is intended that all fire protection features of a building, whether required or not, will be designed in conformance with good fire protection engineering practice and will meet the appropriate installation requirements in relevant standards. Good design is necessary to ensure that the level of public safety established by the Code requirements will not be reduced by a voluntary installation.
Firefighting Assumptions
The requirements of this Part are based on the assumption that firefighting capabilities are available in the event of a fire emergency. These firefighting capabilities may take the form of a paid or volunteer public fire department or in some cases a private fire brigade. If these firefighting capabilities are not available, additional fire safety measures may be required.
Firefighting capability can vary from municipality to municipality. Generally, larger municipalities have greater firefighting capability than smaller ones. Similarly, older, well established municipalities may have better firefighting facilities than newly formed or rapidly growing ones. The level of municipal fire protection considered to be adequate will normally depend on both the size of the municipality (i.e., the number of buildings to be protected) and the size of buildings within that municipality. Since larger buildings tend to be located in larger municipalities, they are generally, but not always, favoured with a higher level of municipal protection.
Although it is reasonable to consider that some level of municipal firefighting capability was assumed in developing the fire safety provisions in Part 3, this was not done on a consistent or defined basis. The requirements in the Code, while developed in the light of commonly prevailing municipal fire protection levels, do not attempt to relate the size of building to the level of municipal protection. The responsibility for controlling the maximum size of building to be permitted in a municipality in relation to local firefighting capability rests with the municipality. If a proposed building is too large, either in terms of
These Notes are included for explanatory purposes only and do not form part of the requirements. The number that introduces each Note corresponds to the applicable requirement in this Part.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 3-225
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022
 A-3.1.2. Division B
floor area or building height, to receive reasonable protection from the municipal fire department, fire protection requirements in addition to those prescribed in this Code, may be necessary to compensate for this deficiency. Automatic sprinkler protection may be one option to be considered.
Alternatively, the municipality may, in light of its firefighting capability, elect to introduce zoning restrictions to ensure that the maximum building size is related to available municipal fire protection facilities. This is, by necessity, a somewhat arbitrary decision and should be made in consultation with the local firefighting service, who should have an appreciation of their capability to fight fires.
The requirements of Subsection 3.2.3. are intended to prevent fire spread from thermal radiation assuming there is adequate firefighting available. It has been found that periods of from 10 to 30 minutes usually elapse between the outbreak of fire in a building that is not protected with an automatic sprinkler system and the attainment of high radiation levels. During this period, the specified spatial separations should prove adequate to inhibit ignition of an exposed building face or the interior of an adjacent building by radiation. Subsequently, however, reduction of the fire intensity by firefighting and the protective wetting of the exposed building face will often be necessary as supplementary measures to inhibit fire spread.
In the case of a building that is sprinklered throughout, the automatic sprinkler system should control the fire to an extent that radiation to neighbouring buildings should be minimal. Although there will be some radiation effect on a sprinklered building from a fire in a neighbouring building, the internal sprinkler system should control any fires that might be ignited in the building and thereby minimize the possibility of the fire spreading into the exposed building. NFPA 80A, “Protection of Buildings from Exterior Fire Exposures,” provides additional information on the possibility of fire spread at building exteriors.
The water supply requirements for fire protection installations depend on the requirements of any automatic sprinkler installations and also on the number of fire streams that may be needed at any
fire, having regard to the length of time the streams will have to be used. Both these factors are largely influenced by the conditions at the building to be equipped, and the quantity and pressure of water needed for the protection of both the interior and exterior of the building must be ascertained before the water supply is decided upon. Acceptable water supplies may be a public waterworks system that has adequate pressure and discharge capacity, automatic fire pumps, pressure tanks, manually controlled fire pumps in combination with pressure tanks, gravity tanks, and manually controlled fire pumps operated by remote control devices at each hose station.
A-3.1.2. Use Classification. The purpose of classification is to determine which requirements apply. This Code requires classification in accordance with every major occupancy for which the building is used or intended to be used. Where necessary, an application clause has been inserted in this Part to explain how to choose between the alternative requirements which multiple occupancy classification may present.
A-3.1.2.1.(1) Major Occupancy Classification. The following are examples of the major occupancy classifications described in Table 3.1.2.1.:
Group A, Division 1
Motion picture theatres
Opera houses
Television or radio studios admitting a viewing audience Theatres, including experimental theatres
Group A, Division 2
Art galleries
Auditoria
Bowling alleys
Churches and similar places of worship Clubs
Community halls
Courtrooms
Dance halls
Daycare centres
Exhibition halls (other than classified in Group E) Gymnasia
Lecture halls
Libraries
Licensed beverage establishments Museums
3-226 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
A-3.1.2.1.(1)
Passenger stations and depots Restaurants
Teaching establishments Undertaking premises
Group A, Division 3
Arenas
Indoor swimming pools, with or without spectator seating Rinks
Group A, Division 4
Amusement park structures (not elsewhere classified) Bleachers
Grandstands
Reviewing stands
Stadia
Group B, Division 1
Jails
Penitentiaries
Police stations with detention quarters in which a person is detained for more than 24 hours Prisons
Psychiatric hospitals with detention quarters
Reformatories with detention quarters
Group B, Division 2
Ambulatory clinic occupancies
Convalescent /recovery/rehabilitation centres with treatment Hospitals
Psychiatric hospitals without detention quarters
Residential and long-term care centres (CHSLDs)
Respite centres with treatment
Seniors homes
Group B, Division 3
Children’s custodial homes Convalescent/recovery/rehabilitation centres without treatment Group homes
Hospices
Private seniors’ residences
Reformatories without detention quarters
Respite centres without treatment
Single-family type care facilities
Single-family type private seniors’ residences
Group C
Apartments Boarding houses Convents Dormitories Hotels
Houses Monasteries Motels Orphanages Outfitters
Schools, residential Shelters
Summer camps
Group D
Banks
Barber and hairdressing shops Beauty parlours
Dental offices
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division B
3-227
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-3.1.2.1.(1) Division B
Dry cleaning establishments, self-service, not using flammable or explosive solvents or cleaners Laundries, self-service
Medical offices
Offices
Police stations without detention quarters
Radio stations
Small tool and appliance rental and service establishments
Group E
Department stores Exhibition halls Markets
Shops
Stores Supermarkets
Group F, Division 1
Bulk plants for flammable liquids
Bulk storage warehouses for hazardous substances Cereal mills
Chemical manufacturing or processing plants Distilleries
Dry cleaning plants
Feed mills
Flour mills
Grain elevators
Lacquer factories
Mattress factories
Paint, varnish and pyroxylin product factories Rubber processing plants
Spray painting operations
Waste paper processing plants
Group F, Division 2
Aircraft hangars
Box factories
Candy plants
Cold storage plants
Dry cleaning establishments not using flammable or explosive solvents or cleaners Electrical substations
Factories
Freight depots
Helicopter landing areas on roofs
Laboratories
Laundries, except self-service
Mattress factories
Planing mills
Printing plants
Repair garages
Salesrooms
Service stations
Storage rooms
Television studios not admitting a viewing audience Warehouses
Wholesale rooms
Woodworking factories
Workshops
Group F, Division 3
Creameries
Factories
Laboratories
Light-aircraft hangars (storage only)
3-228 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
A-3.1.5.5.(1)(b)
Power plants
Salesrooms
Sample display rooms
Storage garages, including open air parking garages Storage rooms
Warehouses
Workshops
A-3.1.2.3.(1) Arena Regulation. The use of an arena is regulated in the NFC.
A-3.1.4.1.(1) Combustible Construction and Materials Permitted. The permission to use combustible construction or combustible materials stated in Articles 3.1.4.1., 3.1.5.5., 3.1.5.14. and 3.1.5.15. does not waive the requirements regarding construction type and cladding stated in Article 3.2.3.7.
A-3.1.4.2. Protection of Penetrations. Where foamed plastics are required to be protected from adjacent spaces within a building, the protection should be continuous so as to cover the foamed plastics so they are not exposed to the interior of the building. However, minor penetrations of the protective covering by small electrical and mechanical components, such as electrical outlets and fixtures, sprinkler piping, and mechanical vents, are acceptable because the penetrant and associated fittings and seals will prevent the small amount of foamed plastic surrounding the penetration from being exposed to the interior of the building.
Foamed plastics that are penetrated by larger components or assemblies, such as windows, are unlikely to be exposed to the interior of the building as they are protected by associated framing and finishes and/or the installation of a closure.
Small amounts of foamed plastics, such as air sealants used between major components of exterior wall construction, are not required to be protected (see Sentence 3.1.5.2.(1)).
Penetrations of a fire separation or of a membrane forming part of an assembly required to have a fire-resistance rating are nevertheless required to be provided with a fire stop in accordance with Subsection 3.1.9.
A-3.1.4.2.(1)(c) Thermal Barrier in Combustible Construction. Any thermal barrier that is accepted under the requirements of Sentence 3.1.5.15.(2) for noncombustible construction is also acceptable for combustible construction.
A-3.1.4.2.(2) and 3.1.5.7.(3) Walk-in Coolers and Freezers. Sentences 3.1.4.2.(2) and 3.1.5.7.(3) are intended to apply to walk-in coolers and freezers that are constructed as stand-alone structures within a building.
A-3.1.4.3.(1)(b)(i) Raceway Definition. The term raceway is defined in CSA C22.1, “Canadian Electrical Code, Part I,” and includes both rigid and flexible conduit.
A-3.1.4.3.(1) Wire and Cable Equivalence. Electrical wires and cables that conform to the requirements of Sentence 3.1.5.21.(1) are deemed to satisfy the requirements of Sentence 3.1.4.3.(1).
A-3.1.4.8.(1) Exterior Cladding. The requirements in Sentence 3.1.4.8.(1) are intended to limit the potential for fire spread on the exterior cladding of buildings of combustible construction through the use of noncombustible finishes on the exterior of the wall assembly or the use of a cladding/wall assembly that has been assessed with regard to its ability to resist flame propagation up the outside of a building. These cladding and wall assembly combinations can be used as infill or panel-type walls between structural elements, or attached directly to a loadbearing structural system. Note that these requirements apply independently of the provisions contained in Subsection 3.2.3. regarding spatial separation and exposure protection.
A-3.1.5.4.(1) Skylight Spacing. The minimum spacing dimensions for skylight assemblies are based on the distance that flame must travel along a flat ceiling surface. If ceilings have projecting beams or other features that would increase the distance the flame would have to travel along the surface, the distances specified may be measured accordingly.
A-3.1.5.5.(1)(b) Combustible Cladding on Exterior Walls. The performance of the wall assembly is assessed with regard to its ability to resist flame propagation up the outside of a building.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 3-229
  © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-3.1.5.5.(1)(b)(i) Division B
A-3.1.5.5.(1)(b)(i) Flame-Spread Distance. The maximum flame-spread distance referred to in Subclause 3.1.5.5.(1)(b)(i) means the distance between the top of the opening and the highest observable instance of flaming along the wall assembly; thus, intermittent flaming to a height of 5 m above the opening is acceptable.
A-3.1.5.5.(1)(b)(ii) Heat Flux Measurement. The heat flux to the assembly referred to in
Subclause 3.1.5.5.(1)(b)(ii) is the maximum one-minute averaged heat flux measured by transducers located 3.5 m above the top of the opening. The intent of this criterion is to limit the spread of fire on the wall assembly to a height of 3.5 m above the opening.
Fire tests have shown that flame does not spread on the exterior surface of a wall assembly where the heat flux is less than 35 kW/m2 above the opening.
A-3.1.5.14.(5)(d) Foamed Plastic Insulation Protection. The standard fire exposure temperature in CAN/ULC-S101, “Fire Endurance Tests of Building Construction and Materials,” is the same as in CAN/ULC-S124, “Test for the Evaluation of Protective Coverings for Foamed Plastic.” A thermal barrier that, when tested in conformance with CAN/ULC-S101, does not exceed an average temperature rise of 140°C on its unexposed face after a period of 10 min satisfies this requirement.
A-3.1.5.21.(1) Wire and Cable Flammability. In regulating the flammability characteristics of electrical wires and cables installed in a building, it is intended that the requirements of this Sentence and of other similar Sentences in the Code apply to wires and cables that are essentially a part of the distribution systems for power or communications. These distribution systems will normally include branch circuits that terminate at an outlet box in the space to be served and at that location cable terminators or plugs for individual items of equipment will be plugged in.
A-3.1.6. Tents and Air-Supported Structures. The requirements in this Subsection are intended to be limited to certain types of structure. For instance, the word “tent” as used in the Code is intended to refer to
a temporary shelter which is used at an open air event such as a fair or an exhibition. A tent will normally
be constructed of a fabric held up by poles and attached to the ground by ties. The requirements for tents, however, are not intended to be applied to fabric structures located on buildings.
The term “air-supported structure,” as used in the Code, refers to an envelope which is held up by air pressure alone and which is erected on the ground or above a basement. The structure will usually require ballast or
a positive ground anchorage system around the entire perimeter to secure it to the ground or basement.
To reinforce this intent, the Code prohibits the location of an air-supported structure above the first storey
of any building.
The requirements of Subsection 3.1.6. are not intended to apply to air-supported roof assemblies on buildings, such as domed stadia, or to other types of air-supported structures, such as those over swimming pools situated on the roofs of buildings, which would not be anchored at or near ground level. These assemblies
or structures are normally designed and evaluated on the basis of alternative solutions as permitted by Article 1.2.1.1. of Division A.
A-3.1.6.2.(4) Clearance. A clear space of not less than 1 m is necessary above partitions to facilitate the detection of smoke inside tents and air-supported structures. Taking the roof slope into account, not more than 30% of the width of a partition may be less than 1 m from the ceiling.
A-3.1.6.12.(2) Deep Fryer Basket. The 2 baskets mentioned in the Article may be in two separated devices or in only one. The objective is to limit the quantity of frying oil present in a tent.
A-3.1.6.13.(1) Structure. A tent or air-supported structure used only in summer is permitted to be designed without taking snow loads into account.
A tent or air-supported structure used in winter must be designed taking snow, ice and freezing rain loads into account.
Wind loads vary from one region to another. It is important that the structure be able to withstand local loads. The anchorage system must be adapted to each structure.
3-230 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B A-3.1.8.19.(1)
A-3.1.7.6. Sprinkler-Protected Fixed Glass Walls. This protection method involves the coordination of several elements, including the location of sprinklers relative to fixed glass walls, number of sprinklers installed to protect the fixed glass wall system, sprinkler activation time, shape of the water spray, thickness and location of the mullions, dimensions of the fixed glass wall system and thickness of the glass.
A-3.1.8.1.(1)(b) Barrier to Control Smoke Spread. Although a fire separation is not always required to have a fire-resistance rating, the fire separation should act as a barrier to the spread of smoke and fire
until some response is initiated.
When choosing products for fire stopping, the physical characteristics of the material used at the joints as well as the nature of the assembly and its potential movement should be taken into consideration.
If the fire-resistance rating of a fire separation is waived on the basis of the presence of an automatic sprinkler system, it is intended that the fire separation will be constructed so that it will remain in place and act as a barrier against the spread of smoke for a period of time until the sprinklers have actuated and controlled the fire.
A-3.1.8.1.(2) Installation of Closures. Although there is no explicit performance statement in the NBC that means of egress should be free of smoke, it is the intent that during the period when occupants are using a means of egress to evacuate from a floor area, the smoke contamination should not reach levels that would inhibit movement to the exit. This is particularly critical for persons with disabilities, who may not move at the same rate as other persons and who could be more susceptible to the effects of smoke contamination. NFPA 80, “Fire Doors and Other Opening Protectives,” requires that a fire door protecting a means of egress be designed to minimize the possibility of smoke passing through the opening.
Although self-closing devices are not required for all doors in a fire separation (see Article 3.1.8.13.), it is assumed that in a fire situation every door in a fire separation is closed. Article 3.3.3.5. prohibits grilles and similar openings for certain doors in hospitals and nursing homes with treatment.
Although fire dampers that release on the fusion of a fusible link will help to control the spread of fire, a substantial quantity of smoke could have passed through the opening before that event. They are frequently located below the upper levels of a room and so the release of the fusible link of the fire damper that protects an opening will be delayed until the temperature at the level of the opening becomes high enough to fuse the link.
Similar concern has to be considered for other closure devices that are permitted to remain open on fusible links, and their location should be restricted in accordance with NFPA 80 and the NBC, except where their installation in another location will not allow the products of combustion to spread into means of egress.
A-3.1.8.3.(4) Fire Separation Continuity. The continuity of a fire separation where it abuts against another fire separation, a floor, a ceiling or an exterior wall assembly is maintained by filling all openings at the juncture of the assemblies with a material that will ensure the integrity of the fire separation at that location.
A-3.1.8.10.(1) Combination Smoke/Fire Dampers. A combination smoke/fire damper may be used in lieu of a fire damper to meet the requirement of Sentence 3.1.8.10.(3).
A-3.1.8.10.(5) Damper Access. It is intended that an access door be provided in the duct and, if the duct is enclosed with an architectural finish, that a second access door be provided through that finish.
A-3.1.8.18.(1) Wired Glass and Glass Block. The permission to include wired glass and glass block in doors and fire separations between an exit and the adjacent floor area does not permit the inclusion of those items in fire separations between exits and other parts of the building that are not included in the floor area. Examples include other exit facilities and vertical service spaces, including those used for building services and elevator hoistways.
A-3.1.8.19.(1) Fire-Protection Rating for Doors. The provisions in Articles 3.1.8.17., 3.1.8.18.
and 3.1.8.19. do not waive a requirement for a door to have a fire-protection rating. To achieve this rating in a door test, it may be necessary to limit the area of glass in the door. If this area is less than the area limits of Article 3.1.8.18., it is the governing criterion. Conversely, if the area limits of Article 3.1.8.18. are less than the area required to achieve a fire-protection rating, then the area limits of this Article govern.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 3-231
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-3.1.9. Division B
A-3.1.9. Penetrations. In the application of Subsection 3.1.9., a building service is considered to penetrate an assembly if it passes into or through the assembly. In some situations a service item enters an assembly through a membrane at one location, runs within the assembly, and then leaves the assembly through a membrane at another location.
The term “membrane penetration” usually designates an opening made through one side (wall, floor or ceiling membrane) of an assembly, whereas the term “through-penetration” designates an opening that passes through an entire assembly. Fire stopping of membrane penetrations involves installing a material, device
or construction to resist for a prescribed time period the passage of flame and heat through openings in a protective membrane caused by cables, cable trays, conduit, tubing, pipes or similar items. Fire stopping of
a through-penetration involves installing an assemblage of specific materials or products that are designed, tested and fire-resistance rated to resist for a prescribed period of time the spread of fire through penetrations.
Products for fire stopping within a barrier are required to address movement of the assembly and to control smoke spread; as such, the flexibility of the material used at the flexible joints as well as the nature of the assembly and its potential movement must be taken into consideration.
A-3.1.9.1.(1)(b) Penetration. The intention behind the use of the term “cast in place” is to reinforce that there are to be no gaps between the building service or penetrating item and the membrane or assembly it penetrates. The term ”cast in place” describes a typical means of fire stopping for a service penetration through a concrete slab or wall.
A-3.1.9.2.(1) Penetration of Fire Separations by Electrical Boxes. The provisions dealing
with outlet boxes assume size, quantities and concentrations of partial depth penetrations that would not significantly affect the fire resistance of the assembly, including the temperature rise on the unexposed side of a wall. Sentence 3.1.9.2.(1) is not intended to allow large electrical distribution and control boxes to be recessed into an assembly required to have a fire-resistance rating unless they were incorporated in the assembly at
the time of testing.
A-3.1.9.4. Outlet Boxes. For the purposes of Article 3.1.9.4., outlet boxes include, but are not limited to, electrical boxes, junction boxes, high and low voltage outlets, switches, enclosures for electrical equipment, laundry boxes, and shower diverters.
A-3.1.11.5.(1) Fire Blocks in Combustible Construction. Combustible construction referred
to in Sentence 3.1.11.5.(1) includes all types of construction that do not comply with the requirements for noncombustible construction. All the elements within the concealed space can be combustible, unless required to be of noncombustible materials (e.g., certain categories of pipework and ducts), but the value of the flame-spread rating of the combustible materials determines the permitted extent of the concealed space between fire blocks. The materials to be considered include all construction materials regulated by this Code, including the framing and building services that are located in the concealed space.
A-3.1.11.5.(3) Fire Blocks in Horizontal Concealed Spaces. A building conforming to Article 3.2.2.50. or 3.2.2.58. must be protected by sprinklers in accordance with NFPA 13, “Installation
of Sprinkler Systems,” which requires that concealed spaces be sprinklered. However, pursuant to the standard, sprinklers need not be installed in certain enclosed combustible spaces, including those filled with noncombustible insulation.
Due consideration must be given to attics in order to provide cross ventilation where required. According to NFPA 13, “Installation of Sprinkler Systems,” sprinklers need not be installed if there is a space of not more than 50 mm between the top of the noncombustible insulation and the bottom of the bridging. Such a space is not sufficient for adequate ventilation of the attic. If additional space is provided for ventilation purposes, the horizontal concealed space must be sprinklered.
A-3.1.11.7.(6) Integrity of Fire Blocks. Sentence 3.1.11.7.(6) together with Article 3.1.9.1., is intended to ensure that the integrity of fire blocks is maintained at areas where they are penetrated. This requirement is satisfied by the use of generic fire stops such as mineral wool, gypsum plaster or Portland cement mortar, as well as rated fire stops.
A-3.1.11.7.(7) Fire Blocks. Figure A-3.1.11.7.(7) shows the location of the semi-rigid fibre insulation board at the intersection between walls and floors in wood-frame construction. The figure is intended to illustrate the fire block detail and not a design of a fire separation.
3-232 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
  © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B A-3.2.2.2.(1)
Figure A-3.1.11.7.(7) Fire block
A-3.1.13.2.(2) Folding Partition. Folding partitions used to divide a space into separate rooms are not considered as doors for the purposes of this Sentence.
A-3.2.1.1.(3)(a) Mezzanine Area. The permitted area of the mezzanine for the purposes of determining the allowable percentage is to be based on the open area of the floor of the space in which the mezzanine is located. The Code does not restrict the enclosing of space below the mezzanine but the enclosed area must be deducted from the area of the overall space before applying the percentage allowance.
A-3.2.1.1.(8) Accessible Service Space. These service spaces are often referred to as interstitial spaces and are designed to allow service personnel to enter and undertake maintenance or installation within the space. Catwalks or flooring are usually included to provide a walking or access surface. Even when flooring is included, it is not intended that the interstitial space should be considered as a storey for the purposes of the Code unless the space is used for purposes other than servicing or the storage of materials and equipment
to be used for building services within that space.
A-3.2.1.2.(1) Storage Garage Considered as a Separate Building. Where a storage garage is considered as a separate building for the purposes of Subsection 3.2.2., it is permitted to use the number of storeys, the building area and the occupancy of each construction located above the garage to determine if sprinklering is required, the type of construction, and the fire-resistance rating of the loadbearing floors, columns and arches. For all the other requirements in the NBC, all the constructions above the garage and the garage are only one building. The alarm and detection system must serve all parts of the building, including townhouses located above the storage garage.
Where one of the constructions located above the garage is a high building, that construction, the storage garage and all accesses to the other parts of the building must conform to Subsection 3.2.6.
A-3.2.2.2.(1) Special and Unusual Structures. Examples of structures which cannot be identified with the descriptions of buildings in Articles 3.2.2.20. to 3.2.2.90. include grain elevators, refineries and towers. Publications that may be consulted to establish good engineering practice for the purposes of Article 3.2.2.2. include the NFPA “Fire Protection Handbook,” Factory Mutual Data Sheets, and publications of the Society for Fire Protection Engineering.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 3-233
                 joist
semi-rigid fibre insulation board fastened to one set of studs
joist
        EG02044A
  © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-3.2.2.10.(3) Division B
A-3.2.2.10.(3) Distance Between the Building Perimeter and Street. To be considered as facing a street, not less than 25% of the building perimeter must be within 15 m of the street. However, considering the available firefighting equipment, it is recommended to verify the municipality requirements regarding
that distance since certain municipalities may require a shorter distance.
A-3.2.2.18.(2) Sprinkler Extent. A literal interpretation of Article 3.2.2.6. and Sentences 3.2.2.4.(1) and (2) could require installation of an automatic sprinkler system throughout all storeys of a building regardless of options in Articles 3.2.2.20. to 3.2.2.90. to construct one or more storeys without installation of sprinklers. It is the intent of the Code that all storeys below a storey in which an automatic sprinkler system is installed should also be protected by an automatic sprinkler system to ensure that a fire in a lower storey does not incapacitate the automatic sprinkler system or overwhelm an automatic sprinkler system in an upper storey. Persons in an upper storey in which waivers or reductions of other fire safety systems are permitted would be exposed to an increased risk from a fire on a lower storey. This concept also applies to situations
in which an automatic sprinkler system has been installed within a floor area in order to modify other safety requirements applying within the floor area. If the uppermost storey or storeys of a building can be constructed without the installation of an automatic sprinkler system it is not necessary that an automatic sprinkler system required in a lower storey be extended into the upper storey or storeys.
A-3.2.2.35.(4) Sprinkler Requirements. Spaces in a building of Group A, Division 4 occupancy that are intended to be equipped with sprinklers include, but are not limited to, dressing and changing rooms, concession stands and areas, toilet rooms, locker rooms, storage areas, service rooms, offices and other spaces that provide service to the building. The enclosure of seating areas with glazing needs special consideration in determining the requirements for sprinklers. For example, if the enclosed area is used for the consumption of food and beverages, it should be classified as Group A, Division 2 and the appropriate requirements of that classification applied. Enclosure of limited spaces above seating areas for press and media purposes is not considered to require the installation of sprinklers.
A-3.2.2.50.(1)(c)(ii) Height of the Roof of a Combustible Building with 6 Storeys. All rooftop enclosures, including visual screens concealing mechanical equipment, parapet walls and terrace guards, shall be taken into account in determining the highest point of the roof.
A-3.2.3. Fire Protection Related to Limiting Distance versus Separation Between Buildings. Code provisions that address protection against fire spread from building to building use the limiting distance (see the definition in Article 1.4.1.2. of Division A) for a building rather than using the distance between adjacent buildings on separate properties, since this would result in situations where the design and construction of a building on one property affects the design and construction of a building on an adjacent property.
The Code requirements that deal with reducing the probability of building-to-building fire spread were originally developed based on the assumption that the exposing building faces of adjacent buildings are of similar size and configuration, and are equidistant from the shared property line. Where buildings are of different sizes, the smaller building may be subject to a higher heat flux in the event of a fire compared to the larger building. Where buildings are closely spaced and not equidistant from the property line, the construction of the building with the greater limiting distance does not recognize the proximity of the building with the lesser limiting distance.
The Code has more stringent requirements for buildings with lesser limiting distance as regards the maximum area and spacing of unprotected openings, and the construction, cladding and fire resistance of walls. This increased stringency recognizes that the fire hazard is greater where buildings are closer together and that adjacent buildings may have exposing building faces of different sizes, configurations or limiting distances, which could further increase the hazard.
The authority having jurisdiction may also address limiting distances through legal agreements with the parties involved that stipulate that the limiting distance be measured to a line that is not the property line. Such agreements would normally be registered with the titles of both properties.
A-3.2.3.1.(4) Spatial Separation Design. In the application of Sentences 3.2.3.1.(3) and (4), it is intended that Sentence (3) be used first to establish the basic requirements for the exterior wall in terms of fire-resistance rating, type of construction and type of cladding. The percentage of unprotected openings determined from the application of Sentence (3) would be unnecessarily restrictive if the actual unprotected openings occur in a plane that is set back from the front of the building face.
3-234 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B A-3.2.3.4.(1)
Sentence (4) applies to the calculation of the allowable percentage of unprotected openings based upon projection onto a plane that is in front of all unprotected openings. The application of these two Sentences is shown in Figure A-3.2.3.1.(4). The modifications permitted by Article 3.2.3.12. would be applied, if applicable, to the area of unprotected openings derived from Sentence (4).
Figure A-3.2.3.1.(4) Spatial separation design
A-3.2.3.1.(8) Intervention Time and Limiting Distance. The total time from the start of a fire until fire suppression by the fire department depends on the time taken for a series of actions. Sentence 3.2.3.1.(8) is only concerned with the time from receipt of notification of a fire by the fire department until the arrival of the first fire department vehicle at the building. It specifies a 10-min time limit which must be met in more than 90% of the calls to the building served by the fire department. This reliability level and provision for flexibility is essentially consistent with NFPA 1710, “Organization and Deployment of Fire Suppression Operations, Emergency Medical Operations, and Special Operations to the Public by Career Fire Departments.”
Clause 4.1.2.1 of NFPA 1710 establishes “time objectives” for fire incidents as follows:
• 1min(60s)forturn-outofrespondersafterreceiptofnotificationofafire,and
• 4min(240s)orlessforarrivalofthefirstarrivingenginecompanyatafiresuppressionincidentand/or
8 min (480 s) or less for the deployment of a full first alarm assignment at a fire suppression incident.
The standard requires that the fire department establish a “performance objective” of not less than 90% for each response time objective. This reliability level is referred to in NFPA 1710 as a “performance objective.”
Where the 10-min limit cannot be met by the fire department at least 90% of the time, Sentence 3.2.3.1.(8) specifies that a value corresponding to half the actual limiting distance be used in requirements that depend on limiting distance to define other criteria.
For new subdivisions, legal agreements may be made for the construction of fire stations to serve those areas. The fire department response time in those subdivisions may temporarily exceed 10 min until the fire station is constructed.
See also Sentences 9.10.14.3.(1) and 9.10.15.3.(1).
A-3.2.3.4.(1) Party Walls. By definition, a party wall is a wall jointly owned and used by two parties under easement agreement or by right in law, and is erected at or upon a line that separates two parcels of land that are, or are capable of being, separate real estate entities. With the exception of some Part 9 residential occupancies, both Part 3 and Part 9 of the Code require that, where party walls are constructed on property lines, they be constructed as a 2- or 4-hour firewall (see also Article 9.10.11.1.). Buildings on each side of a party wall that is constructed as a firewall are considered as separate buildings (see Article 1.3.3.4. of Division A).
In a Part 9 residential building that has no dwelling unit above another, a party wall constructed on a property line between two dwelling units need not be constructed as a firewall, but must be constructed as a continuous
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 3-235
   line to which limiting distance is measured
    limiting distance
Sentence 3.2.3.1.(3)
no unprotected openings in
front of this vertical plane
limiting distance
Sentence 3.2.3.1.(4)
unprotected openings
vertical plane for the purpose of determining construction, cladding and fire-resistance rating
vertical plane for the purpose of determining percentage of unprotected openings
EC01200A
              © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-3.2.3.6.(2) Division B
fire separation that extends from the top of the footings to the underside of the roof, with a fire-resistance rating of at least 1 hour (see Article 9.10.11.2.). These party walls do not create separate buildings.
Where two parties share a party wall on a property line, each party is responsible for fire safety in their unit, but is still subject to possible fire risks from activities in the adjoining units. The separating party wall is intended to provide a significant degree of fire protection between the adjacent units, often exceeding even that required between suites in multiple-unit residential and non-residential occupancies.
When a building spans a property line, constructing a party wall on the property line is not mandated by the Code, but subdividing the building at the property line is an option the owner can consider. The Code permits a building constructed on more than one property to be designed as a single undivided building, whether the properties have a common owner or not. However, if a subdividing wall is constructed on the property line within the building for the purpose of separating the two real estate entities and is shared by two different owners, the wall would, by definition, be deemed a party wall. As such, this party wall would need to meet the construction requirements described above, depending on the building’s occupancy classification and size.
A building that spans two or more properties, but that does not have a party wall at the property line, may need to address the Code requirements for party walls in the future.
A-3.2.3.6.(2) Protection of Roof Soffits Near Property Lines. Sentences 3.2.3.6.(2) to (5) and parallel Sentences 9.10.14.5.(5) to (7) and 9.10.15.5.(5) to (7) provide requirements for the protection of soffits where the soffit of the subject building is located close to the property line or to an imaginary line between two buildings on the same property. Fire from inside the roof space of the subject building can exit unprotected soffits and expose the adjacent building to flames.
A-3.2.3.14.(1) Wall Exposed to Another Wall. The requirements of Article 3.2.3.14. are to ensure that the control of fire spread by the interior fire separations between fire compartments is not defeated through the spread of fire by thermal radiation outside the building. Minimum spatial separations are specified between the openings in separate fire compartments where the exterior faces of these compartments are deemed to expose each other to a thermal radiation hazard. This situation may arise where the angle, θ, between the intersecting planes of the exposing building faces is 135° or less. Examples of situations that would be addressed by this Article are shown in Figures A-3.2.3.14.(1)-A, A-3.2.3.14.(1)-B and A-3.2.3.14.(1)-C.
Figure A-3.2.3.14.(1)-A
Openings in walls at a right-angle corner
3-236 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
    fire compartment A plan view
interior
fire separation
fire compartment B
plan view
q=90° Do
     EG01201A
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B A-3.2.4.4.(2)(c)
Figure A-3.2.3.14.(1)-B
Openings in walls that are parallel to one another
Figure A-3.2.3.14.(1)-C
Openings in walls with an included angle of 45°
A-3.2.4. Fire Alarm System. The term “fire alarm system” used in this Subsection applies to fire alarm systems with or without voice communication capability.
A-3.2.4.2.(1) Continuity of Fire Alarm System. A building separated by a firewall to increase the building areas permitted in Subsection 3.2.2., but designed and operated as only one building, must have only one fire alarm system.
A-3.2.4.4.(1) Single Stage Fire Alarm System. This requirement, in combination with
Article 3.2.4.22., is intended to allow for the provision of voice communication capability as an integral part of a single stage fire alarm system.
A-3.2.4.4.(2)(c) Fire Alarm Alert Signal. In a 2-stage fire alarm system described in Sentence 3.2.4.4.(2), the alert signal may be transmitted to audible signal devices in designated locations or to audible signal devices throughout the building. If actuated, the second stage alarm signal in a 2-stage fire alarm system may sound throughout all zones in the building. All manual station key switches would typically initiate the alarm signal.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 3-237
    fire compartment A plan view
interior
fire separation
   Do
   fire compartment B plan view
 q=0°
 EG01202A
     interior
fire separation
fire compartment A plan view
 fire compartment B plan view
q=45° Do
 EG01203A
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-3.2.4.4.(2) Division B
Sentence 3.2.4.4.(2) also allows the implementation of a “zoned 2-stage” sequence of operation, whereby the alarm signal sounds in the zone of key switch actuation (and perhaps in the adjacent zones, which may be the storey above and the storey below) and the alert signal sounds throughout the rest of the building. This sequencing would be created automatically by the fire alarm control unit.
The key or special device referred to in Clause 3.2.4.4.(2)(c) should be immediately available to all persons on duty who have been given authority to sound an alarm signal.
A-3.2.4.4.(2) Two-Stage Fire Alarm System. Sentence 3.2.4.4.(2), in combination with Article 3.2.4.22. or 3.2.4.23., is intended to allow for the provision of voice communication capability as an integral part of a 2-stage fire alarm system.
A-3.2.4.5.(1) Provision of CSA-C22.1 concerning Fire Alarm Systems. That requirement is not new. It has been required under CAN/ULC-S524, “Installation of Fire Alarm Systems,” in several editions of the NBC. Despite the fact that Chapter V, Electricity, of the Construction Code (chapter B-1.1, r. 2) adopts the Canadian Electrical Code excluding Articles 32-100 to 32-110 of that Code, the NBC requires compliance with those Articles covering fire alarm systems.
A-3.2.4.6.(2) Access to Silencing Switches. This requirement is intended to prevent easy access to silencing switches. The satisfactory operation of a fire alarm system to alert the occupants of a building to an emergency is predicated on the assumption that the alarm signal will be silenced only after responsible staff have verified that no emergency exists. Details on the emergency procedures to be used in case of fire are contained in the NFC.
A-3.2.4.7.(4) Design and Installation of Fire Department Notification. In some jurisdictions, the fire department may utilize, or have available, a municipal fire alarm system or equipment intended for receiving notification by means of a direct connection. If used, it is expected that these systems and installations conform to the requirements of Sentence (4) so as to achieve and provide a uniform and reliable level of service. It is also intended that a proprietary central station as well as a fire brigade used by a large corporation, university campus or similar site comply with Sentence (4).
CAN/ULC-S561, “Installation and Services for Fire Signal Receiving Centres and Systems,” which is referenced in Sentence 3.2.4.7.(4), and CAN/ULC-S524, “Installation of Fire Alarm Systems,” which is referenced in Sentence 3.2.4.5.(1), go hand-in-hand: conformity to CAN/ULC-S561 entails conformity with the fire alarm system components required in that standard, which include the fire alarm transmitter (signal transmitting unit), the interconnections, and the communication path.
A-3.2.4.7.(5)(b) Emergency Telephone Number. In many municipalities an emergency telephone number, for example 911, is used for all emergency services and it is preferable to post that number.
A-3.2.4.8.(2) Fire Alarm Zones. Alarm initiating devices referred to in this Sentence include fire detectors, waterflow switches and manual stations. If a room or space in a building extends through more than one storey of the building, as in the case of multi-level dwelling units and machinery rooms, judgment must be exercised in the zoning and annunciation of the fire detectors in that room or space. In general, the lowest storey on which access is provided into the room or space should be indicated on the annunciator to avoid unnecessary delays for the responding firefighters. Consideration should also be given to the use of numbers or letters on the annunciator that correspond to those used in the building passenger elevators.
A-3.2.4.9.(3)(f) Supervision for Fire Pumps. Specific electrical supervision for fire pumps is stated in NFPA 20, “Installation of Stationary Pumps for Fire Protection,” which is referenced in NFPA 13, “Installation of Sprinkler Systems.”
A-3.2.4.11.(1) Smoke Detector Location. In the design and installation of the smoke detection system, consideration must be given to all features which could have a bearing on the location and sensitivity of the detectors, including ceiling height, sloped ceilings, diffusion from air conditioning and ventilating currents, obstructions, baffles, and other pertinent physical configurations that might interfere with the proper operation of the system.
3-238 Division B Amended Page National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
  © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B A-3.2.4.18.
A-3.2.4.11.(3) Visible Signals. If staff located in each zone or compartment can see each sleeping room door, visible signals may be located above each door. If staff cannot see every door, it is intended that the visible signals be provided at the location where the staff are normally in attendance. The audible signal is intended to alert staff of the need to check the visible signals.
A-3.2.4.16.(1) Manual Station. Only one manual station need be provided near a group of doors serving as a principal entrance or as a single exit facility.
A-3.2.4.18. Acoustic Measurement and Terminology. The following notes on acoustic measurement and terminology are intended to assist in the application of the requirements for audibility of fire alarm system sounding devices.
The background or ambient measurement should be a spatial averaged A-weighted equivalent sound level measured for 60 s. This can be obtained using an integrating sound level meter with the integration time set to 60 s. During the measurement period the meter should be slowly moved about so as to sample the space uniformly but coming no closer than 0.5 m from any solid wall, floor or ceiling. Alternatively, measurements can be made at 3 or more positions throughout the space and an energy average calculated.
The measurement of the alarm level depends on the type of alarm signal. If the signal is a continuous signal from a bell or siren, the spatial averaged A-weighted equivalent sound level should be obtained. The integration time should be long enough to obtain a reasonable spatial average of the space, but not less than 10 s.
If the alarm has a temporal pattern, then the A-weighted sound level should be measured using the ’fast’ time constant during the ’on’ part of the cycle. In this situation it is not appropriate to use an integrating sound level meter. Since the duty cycle of the alarm is only 37.5% at best, that type of meter would give a reading that is 4 or more decibels lower than the level while the alarm is ’on.’ A number of measurements should be made about the space in question and the average value used to obtain a good spatial representation. Strictly speaking, the energy average of the measurements should be used; however, the frequency spectrum associated with most alarms is of a type that should give little variation about the space. If the measured levels don’t vary by more than 2 to 3 dB, then an arithmetic average rather than an energy average can be used.
Effect of Furnishings
The final inspection of a fire alarm system is seldom made when the building is furnished and ready for occupancy. This results in measured levels which may be several decibels higher than will be found in the occupied building. The importance of this difference depends on the situation.
If the building is complete except for furnishings, so that the sources of ambient noise are present, then the amount by which the alarm signal exceeds the ambient level will not change appreciably with the introduction of furnishings. In this case both levels will be reduced by about the same amount.
If the primary source of ambient noise will be office equipment and workers, as would be expected in an open plan office, then measurements made prior to occupancy may differ substantially from those made afterwards. This may be true for both the absolute sound levels and the difference between the alarm level and the ambient.
A problem arises in trying to estimate what the absolute sound levels will be after the building is occupied.
In general, if the measurement is made in a totally bare room then the level will be about 3 dB higher than if the room were carpeted, assuming a reasonable carpet with an underlay. In most cases this will account for most of the absorption in the room and no further correction will be necessary. Adding heavy drapes and absorptive furnishings to a carpeted room can reduce the sound level by a further 2 to 3 dB.
Commercial buildings are more problematic. For example, if an open plan office is measured before any office screens are installed, there could be a substantial difference in the before and after levels, depending on the distance to the nearest alarm device.
Glossary of Acoustical Terms
Audible: A signal is usually considered to be clearly audible if the A-weighted sound level exceeds the level of ambient noise by 15 dB or more.
Awakening threshold: The level of sound that will awaken a sleeping subject 50% of the time.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 3-239
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-3.2.4.18.(1) Division B
A-weighted: A frequency weighting network which emphasizes the middle frequency components similar to the response of the human ear. The A-weighted sound level correlates well with subjective assessment of the disturbing effects of sounds. The quantity is expressed in dBA.
Masked threshold: The level of sound at which a signal is just audible in ambient noise.
Sound level: A sound pressure level obtained using a signal to which a standard frequency-weighting has been applied.
Sound pressure: A fluctuating pressure superimposed on the static pressure by the presence of sound. The unqualified term means the root-mean-square sound pressure. In air, the static pressure is barometric pressure.
Sound pressure level: Ten times the common logarithm of the ratio of the square of the sound pressure under consideration to the square of the standard reference pressure of 20 mPa. The quantity obtained is expressed in decibels.
A-3.2.4.18.(1) Alert and Alarm Signals. Alert signals are part of a 2 stage fire alarm system. The intent of the first, alert, stage is to notify persons in authority of a potential threat to building occupants. If a continuously staffed location is available, the alert signal can be restricted to that location.
The fire alarm signals must be clearly audible throughout the floor area. When designing and testing the system, all doors must be closed.
A-3.2.4.18.(2) Alarm Signal Temporal Pattern. The temporal pattern of an alarm signal relates to the time during which the signal is produced and the intervals between the individual signal pulses. The international standard ISO 8201, “Acoustics – Audible emergency evacuation signal,” includes a pattern that is becoming widely used in different countries and it is appropriate for this pattern to be adopted in Canada. The temporal pattern can be produced on most signalling devices. Most existing alarm systems can be modified, and this pattern could be phased in when the systems require modification. The characteristic of the pattern is a 3-pulse phase followed by an off phase. The 3 pulses each consist of an on phase lasting for 0.5 ± 0.05 s followed by an off phase lasting for 0.5 ± 0.05 s sounded for 3 successive on periods and then followed by an off phase lasting for 1.5 ± 0.15 s. Figure A-3.2.4.18.(2)-A indicates the pattern that is intended.
Figure A-3.2.4.18.(2)-A
Temporal pattern for fire alarm signal
Although the diagram shows a square wave form, the wave can have other shapes that produce a similar effect.
If single stroke bells are to be used, the temporal pattern can be produced by having the bell struck three times at a rate of one stroke per second followed by an interval of 2 s of silence. Figure A-3.2.4.18.(2)-B shows the pattern that results.
3-240 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
   On Off
    ababa c a One cycle
 Phase a: signal is on for 0.5 ± 0.05 s Phase b: signal is off for 0.5 ± 0.05 s Phase c: signal is off for 1.5 ± 0.15 s Total cycle to last 4.0 ± 0.40 s
EG01204A
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B A-3.2.4.20.(7)(a)
Figure A-3.2.4.18.(2)-B
Temporal pattern imposed on a single stroke bell or chime
Note to Figure A-3.2.4.18.(2)-B:
(1) The on phase represents the time that the striker mechanism is actuated. The sound produced by the bell or chime will continue at a level that decreases until the striker mechanism is re-actuated.
A-3.2.4.18.(3) Audibility of Alarm Systems. It is very difficult to specify exactly what types of sound patterns are considered to be “significantly different” from one another. The intent is to ensure that there is a noticeable or measurable difference between the alert signals and the alarm signals such that it reduces the possibility of confusion.
A-3.2.4.18.(5) Residential Sound Level. In a building in which corridors or hallways serve more than one suite or dwelling unit, there will be situations in which an audible signal device cannot be placed in the corridor or hallway to alert persons sleeping in suites and dwelling units, because the sound level in the vicinity of the device would exceed that permitted by Sentence 3.2.4.18.(4). In these situations it will be necessary to supplement the building fire alarm system with an audible signal device in the suite or dwelling unit. These devices could be piezoelectric devices similar to the sounding units in many smoke alarms, subject to the device emitting the appropriate temporal pattern required by Sentence 3.2.4.18.(2).
A-3.2.4.18.(7) Disconnect Device for Dwelling Units. In order to minimize the annoyance caused by false and unwanted alarms, the disconnect will permit a person to silence the local audible device within the dwelling unit. At that time the person would be aware of sounds from devices in common spaces and could plan appropriate action. The disconnect will reduce the possibility of tampering with the audible devices.
A-3.2.4.18.(8) and (9) Signal Circuits. Clause 3.2.4.18.(8)(a) permits Class A wiring, or Class B wiring with signal circuit isolators located outside of the suites, to serve audible signal devices within residential suites.
Clause 3.2.4.18.(8)(b) permits a separate signal circuit to serve each suite without the need for signal circuit isolators or Class A wiring.
Open circuits and Class A and Class B wiring circuits are terms defined in CAN/ULC-S524, “Installation of Fire Alarm Systems.”
A-3.2.4.19.(2) Visual Alarm Signal. CAN/ULC-S526, “Visible Signaling Devices for Fire Alarm and Signaling Systems, Including Accessories,” applies to visual signalling units. This document is referenced by the most recent standard for the installation of fire alarm systems and would automatically apply. Current Canadian technology does not integrate visual and audible alarms to have the same temporal pattern. Visual and audible alarms should have as close a temporal pattern as possible but without interference beats that might have a deleterious effect on some persons. Visual signalling devices with the same temporal pattern as required for audible devices are available from some sources and they should become available in Canada. Not all units that comply with the ULC standard will have sufficient power to adequately cover large areas; care will have to be taken to specify units with adequate power when large spaces are being designed.
A-3.2.4.20.(7)(a) Smoke Alarm Installation. CSA C22.1, “Canadian Electrical Code, Part I,” permits a smoke alarm to be installed on most residential circuits that carry lighting outlets and receptacles. It is the intent of the NBC that any other item on a circuit with a smoke alarm should be unlikely to be overloaded and trip the breaker with a resultant loss of power that is not sufficiently annoying for the breaker to be restored to the on position. It is considered that an interior bathroom light or a kitchen light fulfills this intent, but that circuits restricted to receptacles do not fulfill this intent.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 3-241
   On
Off
  0 2 4 6 8 10 Time, s EG01205A
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-3.2.4.20.(8) Division B
A-3.2.4.20.(8) Smoke Detectors in lieu of Smoke Alarms. It is intended that the smoke detector in this application will function as per the requirements of a smoke alarm; specifically, it will be a localized alarm to that suite. The advantage of this type of installation is that the detector would be monitored by
the fire alarm panel, which would provide notification to supervisory personnel and be inspected as per CAN/ULC-S524, “Installation of Fire Alarm Systems.”
A-3.2.4.22.(1)(b) Voice Messages. The concept of intelligibility expressed in Clause 3.2.4.22.(1)(b) is intended to mean that a person with average hearing and cognitive abilities is able to understand the messages that are transmitted into the space occupied by the person. There is no absolute measure to predetermine the effect of loudspeakers and it may be necessary, once the building has been furnished and occupied, to increase the number of loudspeakers to improve the quality of the messages.
The intelligibility of the message depends on the speech level, the background level, and the reverberation time of the space. ISO 7731, “Ergonomics – Danger signals for public and work areas – Auditory danger signals,” addresses audibility. The standard suggests that an A-weighted sound level at least 15 dBA above the ambient is required for audibility, but allows for more precise calculations using octave or 1/3 octave band frequencies to tailor the alarm signal for particular ambient noise conditions. Design of the alarm system is limited to ensuring that all areas receive an adequately loud alarm signal.
If a public address system is to be used to convey instructions during an emergency, then the requirements of the system are less straightforward. In general, however, a larger number of speakers operating at lower sound levels would be required.
Additional guidance on how to design and evaluate the intelligibility of a communication system can be found in the following documents:
• IEC60268-16,“SoundSystemEquipment–Part16:ObjectiveRatingofSpeechIntelligibilitybySpeech Transmission Index”
• ISO 7240-19, “Fire Detection and Alarm Systems – Part 19: Design, Installation, Commissioning and Service of Sound Systems for Emergency Purposes”
• NEMASB50,“EmergencyCommunicationsAudioIntelligibilityApplicationsGuide”
• Annex D of NFPA 72, “National Fire Alarm and Signaling Code”
A-3.2.5.3.(2) Roof Access. The stairway is permitted to provide access to the roof by a hatch of the size prescribed in Clause 3.2.5.3.(1)(b) or by a rooftop enclosure.
A-3.2.5.4.(1) Fire Department Access for Detention Buildings. Buildings of Group B, Division 1 used for housing persons who are under restraint include security measures that would prevent normal access by local fire departments. These security measures include fencing around the building site, exterior walls without openings or openings which are either very small or fitted with bars, and doors that are equipped with security hardware that would prevent easy entry. These buildings would have firefighting equipment installed and the staff would be trained to handle any small incipient fires. It is expected that appropriate fire safety planning would be undertaken in conjunction with local fire departments in order that special emergencies could be handled in a cooperative manner.
A-3.2.5.6.(1) Fire Department Access Route. The design and construction of fire department access routes involves the consideration of many variables, some of which are specified in the requirements in the Code. All these variables should be considered in relation to the type and size of fire department vehicles available in the municipality or area where the building will be constructed. It is appropriate, therefore, that the local fire department be consulted prior to the design and construction of access routes.
A-3.2.5.7.(1) Water Supply. The intent of Sentence 3.2.5.7.(1) is that an adequate water supply for firefighting be readily available and of sufficient volume and pressure to enable emergency response personnel to control fire growth so as to enable the safe evacuation of occupants and the conduct of search and rescue operations, prevent the fire from spreading to adjacent buildings, and provide a limited measure of property protection.
The water supply requirements for buildings containing internal fire suppression systems, including sprinkler systems and standpipe systems, are contained in specific standards referenced in the Code. Compliance
with the referenced standard, including any variations made by this Code, is deemed to satisfy the intent of Sentence 3.2.5.7.(1). However, it will be necessary to verify that an adequate source of water is available at the building site to meet the required quantities and pressures.
3-242 Division B Amended Page National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B A-3.2.5.12.(6)
For a building with no internal fire suppression system, the determination of the minimum requirements applicable to the water supply for firefighting is relevant mainly to building sites not serviced by municipal water supply systems. For building sites serviced by municipal water supply systems, where the water supply duration is not a concern, water supply flow rates at minimum pressures is the main focus of this provision. However, where municipal water supply capacities are limited, it may be necessary for buildings to have supplemental water supplies on site or readily available.
The sources of water supply for firefighting purposes may be natural or developed. Natural sources may include ponds, lakes, rivers, streams, bays, creeks, and springs. Developed sources may include aboveground tanks, elevated gravity tanks, cisterns, swimming pools, wells, reservoirs, aqueducts, artesian wells, tankers, hydrants served by a public or private water system, and canals. Consideration should be given to ensuring that water sources will be accessible to fire department equipment under all climatic conditions.
The volume of on-site water supply is dependent on the building size, construction, occupancy, exposure and environmental impact potential, and should be sufficient to allow at least 30 minutes of fire department hose stream use.
A-3.2.5.9.(5)(c) Fire Department Pumping Equipment. Availability of appropriate pumping equipment from the local fire department or, in the case of industrial plants or complexes, from their fire brigade, is considered sufficient to meet the intent of this requirement.
A-3.2.5.11.(2) Hose Stations. A building that is partially sprinklered may have some floor areas where local sprinklers are installed that do not cover the entire floor area. It is intended that hose stations be provided in these floor areas to allow emergency responders to fight fires that cannot be controlled by local sprinklers.
A-3.2.5.12.(1) Sprinkler System Design. In NFPA 13, “Installation of Sprinkler Systems,”
reference is made to other NFPA standards that contain additional sprinkler design criteria. These criteria apply to industrial occupancies with high fire loads and industrial occupancies intended for the use, manufacture or storage of highly flammable materials. Therefore, while only NFPA 13 is called up directly by Sentence 3.2.5.12.(1), the additional criteria in the other NFPA standards are included automatically.
In some NFPA standards, certain aspects of sprinkler protection are dependent on the fire-resistance rating
of the vertical structural members. In these cases, the sprinkler system design options can be affected by the fire-resistance rating of these elements. For example, in buildings used for the storage of rubber tires, sprinklers directed at the sides of a column are required if the column does not have the required fire-resistance rating.
Other NFPA standards may require that certain occupancies be sprinklered in conformance with NFPA 13, as in the case of some garages. These requirements do not supersede the requirements in the Code. An occupancy is required to be sprinklered only when this is specified in the Code, but when it is so required, it must be sprinklered in conformance with NFPA 13 and its referenced standards.
Additionally, while Part 4 contains seismic force provisions that apply to the design of sprinklers, NFPA 13 contains other structural requirements for sprinklers that are also required to be met.
A-3.2.5.12.(2) Sprinklering of Residential Buildings above a Storage Garage Considered as a Separate Building. For the purpose of determining whether NFPA 13R, “Installation of Sprinkler Systems in Low-Rise Residential Occupancies,” applies to a residential building constructed over a storage garage, it is not intended that a storage garage constructed as a separate building in accordance with Article 3.2.1.2. be considered as a storey when determining the building height of the residential building.
A-3.2.5.12.(6) Sprinklering of Roof Assemblies. Sprinkler protection for roof assemblies in lieu of fire resistance is based on the assumption that the sprinklers will protect the roof assembly from the effects of fire in spaces below the roof. If a ceiling membrane is installed, the sprinklers would have to be located below the membrane in order to react quickly to the fire. In certain instances, however, sprinklers may be required within the concealed spaces as well as below the membrane. NFPA 13, “Installation of Sprinkler Systems,” requires sprinklers in certain concealed spaces.
According to NFPA 13 and 13R, some small rooms and closets within a dwelling unit in a sprinklered building, including those that may be in the storey immediately below the roof assembly, do not require sprinklers. However, the NBC requires sprinkler protection within all rooms and closets immediately below the roof so
as to control any fire that might start in that space and thereby limit the probability of the fire spreading
into the roof assembly.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 3-243
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-3.2.5.12.(7) Division B
Moreover, NFPA 13D, “Installation of Sprinkler Systems in One- and Two-Family Dwellings and Manufactured Homes,” also allows the omission of sprinklers in such rooms and closets under certain circumstances, provided the building is sprinklered in conformance with this standard. In this case, the NBC concurs with the provisions of the NFPA 13D standard.
A-3.2.5.12.(7) Balconies and Decks. The intent of Sentence 3.2.5.12.(7) is to suppress or control the spread of a fire originating from a balcony or deck to the roof assembly or other parts of the building.
A-3.2.5.12.(8) Sprinkler Rating. The requirements of this Sentence can be met by using sprinklers with a rating of 79°C to 107°C.
A-3.2.5.13.(1) Hazard Classification for Sprinkler Selection. The reference to light hazard occupancies is based on the descriptions of these occupancies given in NFPA 13, “Installation of Sprinkler Systems,” and is intended only for use in the design of sprinkler systems. These descriptions should not be confused with the occupancy classifications in the Code.
In NFPA 13, a light hazard occupancy is one in which the quantity or combustibility of contents is low and fires with relatively low rates of heat release are expected. Typical buildings or parts of buildings include: churches; clubs; eaves and overhangs, if of combustible construction with no combustibles beneath; educational buildings; hospitals; institutional buildings; libraries, except very large stack rooms; museums; nursing or convalescent homes; offices, including data processing rooms; residential buildings; restaurant seating areas; theatres and auditoria, excluding stages and proscenia; and unused attics.
Although NFPA 13R, “Installation of Sprinkler Systems in Low-Rise Residential Occupancies,” and NFPA 13D, “Installation of Sprinkler Systems in One- and Two-Family Dwellings and Manufactured Homes,” as referenced by NFPA 13, are concerned with specific types of residential occupancy, namely apartment buildings up to four storeys, one and two family dwellings, and mobile homes, for the purpose of acceptance of combustible sprinkler piping these occupancies are considered to be included in the category of residential buildings under light hazard occupancies.
A-3.2.5.18.(1) Fire Pumps. In order to ensure an adequate water supply, it may be necessary to install a fire pump for a building that has either a standpipe system or an automatic sprinkler system installed.
A-3.2.6. Smoke Control for High Buildings. Experience with high buildings has shown that the time required for complete evacuation can exceed that which is considered necessary for the safe egress of all occupants. Studies of the “chimney effect” and observations of smoke movement in actual fires have shown that fire compartmentation to contain a fire on any one storey will not usually prevent the movement of smoke through elevator, stair and other vertical shafts to the upper floors of a high building. Occupants of a high building in which an automatic sprinkler system is not installed, and particularly those on upper storeys, could be faced with severe smoke conditions from fires occurring in storeys below them before their own evacuation is possible. The requirements of Subsection 3.2.6. are intended to maintain safe conditions for occupants of a high building who may have to remain in the building during a fire, and to assist the firefighters by providing efficient access to the fire floor. The Notes for Subsection 3.2.6. are intended to assist a designer in complying with the requirements of Subsection 3.2.6. The knowledge requirements are well within the capabilities of a competent designer. The designer should appreciate, however, that successful application requires a clear understanding of the principles that govern smoke movement. Subsection 3.2.6. contains only those items that relate to the design and construction of a building; operation of the facilities and recommended actions to be taken by the building owner, occupant and fire department are covered by the NFC.
The designer is cautioned that the tabular and graphical information in the Notes for Subsection 3.2.6. was developed for buildings having conventional configurations. The designer has to judge the extent to which the building under consideration has characteristics that will allow the application of this information; this is particularly true of designs employing air-handling systems for which a realistic assessment of the leakage characteristics of the enclosures of spaces may be critical.
It is assumed that buildings regulated by Subsection 3.2.6. will be in an area served by a fire department capable of an early response and that all firefighting and rescue situations will be under the direct control of the officer-in-charge of the fire department responding to the emergency. It is important that firefighters
be provided with a smoke-free access to fire floors below grade. Provisions are included to separate exit stairways serving storeys above grade from those serving storeys below grade, and to limit entry of smoke into these shafts. Similarly, elevator hoistways and service shafts are required to be provided with a separation
3-244 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B A-3.2.6.2.(3)
near grade, or be designed to limit their functioning as paths of smoke movement into upper floor areas from storeys below grade.
It is assumed that in the event of fire, occupants of the floor on which the fire occurs will leave by exit stairs immediately following the sounding of a fire alarm, and that occupants of the floor immediately above the floor on which the fire occurs will be advised to leave by the first fire department officer on the scene or other person assigned this responsibility. Occupants of all other floors may remain on their floors unless otherwise directed. It is also assumed that the owner of the building has complied with the Emergency Planning Section of the NFC by preparing a comprehensive fire safety plan to safeguard the building occupants and that the building supervisory staff are familiar with the requirements of Subsection 3.2.6. and with their responsibilities under the fire safety plan.
The NBC requires that a check be made of the smoke control and mechanical venting systems. Testing will indicate deficiencies caused by inexact estimates of the leakage characteristics or of air supply requirements and, in all but the most extreme cases, will provide an opportunity for appropriate adjustments before the system is put into service.
A-3.2.6.2.(2) Stairway Protection Below Lowest Exit Level. A stairway serving floors below the lowest exit level is considered to comply with the intent of Sentence 3.2.6.2.(2) if the following conditions are satisfied.
1) The stairway has a vent or door to the outdoors at or near the top of the stair shaft that has an openable area of not less than 0.1 m2 for each storey served by the stairway, less 0.01 m2 for each weatherstripped door and 0.02 m2 for each door that is not weatherstripped opening into the stairway.
2) The stairway is enclosed in a shaft that
a) does not pass through the floor above the lowest exit level and is separate from a shaft that contains
a stairway serving upper storeys, or
b) contains a stairway serving upper storeys, but is separated from that stairway at the lowest exit level
by a fire separation having a fire-resistance rating not less than that required for the shaft enclosure.
3) The stairway is provided with equipment capable of maintaining a flow of air introduced at or near the bottom of the stair shaft, at a rate equal to 0.47 m3/s for each storey served by the stairway.
A-3.2.6.2.(3) Pressurization of Stair Shafts. The purpose of providing open doors and vents at the bottom of a stair shaft is to create a positive pressure in the shaft relative to adjacent floor areas and thus keep it free of smoke. The pressure depends on the temperature differential between the interior and the exterior of the building which is most pronounced during winter months when stack effect is greatest. If a shaft does not have a direct opening to the exterior, alternative means must be provided to achieve smoke control. If a corridor or vestibule is used as a link between the exit level of an interior stair shaft and the outdoors to provide a venting system, it will be necessary to assess the reliability of the overall system. The probability of all doors or closures being opened at the same time has to be addressed, as well as the size of the vestibule and its impact on the overall smoke control system.
If mechanical methods are used to develop a positive pressure in a stair shaft, a minimum pressure differential of 12 Pa is recommended to prevent smoke migration from floor areas in a sprinklered building where fire temperatures are controlled and smoke movement may be dominated by stack effect in a stair shaft. During a fire emergency, persons will be entering and exiting a stair shaft as they move to a place of safety and under these conditions the number of doors open to the stair shaft cannot be predetermined. The number will vary depending on the occupancy of the building, population density and the evacuation plan for the building. It should be assumed that two doors are open. This is based in part as a practical level for most buildings and considers the positive fire experience in sprinklered buildings.
The maximum pressure differential created by a mechanical system should not prevent doors to the stair shafts from being opened. A specific maximum value cannot be given, as this value will depend on the door opening force and size of the door. These values should be calculated for each specific case. Although a maximum value of 130 N is suggested by research as the force that can be opened by the majority of people in most occupancies, this value is above the maximum value of 90 N generally specified in this Code. The use of values below 130 N can create a practical problem in achieving effective smoke control as it is difficult to design for the acceptable minimum and maximum pressure differential range. Special consideration may need to be given for doors located in a barrier-free path of travel.
Care should be taken by designers and by building and fire officials in implementation of these requirements. Assumptions involved in the design of a smoke control system may be different from final construction conditions. For this reason each system should be tested after installation to ensure that the design intent is met.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 3-245
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-3.2.6.2.(4) Division B
The minimum pressure differential is not intended to apply to locations in stair shafts when doors in their proximity are open to adjacent floor areas.
NFPA 92, “Standard for Smoke Control Systems,” suggests mechanical smoke control methods. Those means may be used as alternatives to the venting proposed in this Article. Designers will, however, need to demonstrate that the method they propose under the standard complies with the objectives of the NBC.
A-3.2.6.2.(4) Limiting Smoke Movement. Measures to prevent the migration of smoke from floor areas below the lowest exit storey into upper storeys include the following.
1) An elevator hoistway that passes through the floor above the lowest exit storey should not penetrate the floor of the storey immediately below the lowest exit storey, unless there is a vestibule between the shaft and each floor area below the lowest exit storey that
a) has a fire separation, with a fire-resistance rating not less than 45 min, between the vestibule and any public corridor,
b) has a fire separation, with a fire-resistance rating not less than that required for an exit by Article 3.4.4.1., between the vestibule and any stair or elevator enclosure or any part of a floor area, other than a public corridor, and
c) except for elevator hoistway entrances, has a self-closing device on any door through the fire separation required by Clauses (a) and (b), with the door opening in the direction of travel from the floor area to the exit stairway.
Figure A-3.2.6.2.(4)-A
Vent to a vertical service space with no other pressurized shaft in the building
Notes to Figure A-3.2.6.2.(4)-A:
(1) CurveAappliestoaverticalservicespacethatisenclosedbyunplasteredunitmasonryorbyplasterandsteelstudconstructionwithall openings in the shaft sealed to the degree required by Articles 3.1.9.1. to 3.1.9.5.
(2) CurveBappliestoaverticalservicespacethatisenclosedbymonolithicconcreteorbyplasteredunitmasonrywithallopeningsintheshaft sealed tightly to minimize air leakage.
(3) Ashafthavingaventthatis100%ofthecross-sectionalareaoftheshaftisacceptableforbuildingsupto1.5timestheheightshownbythe appropriate curve in Figures A-3.2.6.2.(4)-A and A-3.2.6.2.(4)-B.
(4) Thetotalleakagearea,basedonmeasurementsintypicalhighbuildings,isassumedtobe0.025m2forevery10m2ofshaftwallareainthe case of Curve A and 0.015 m2 for every 10 m2 of shaft wall area in the case of Curve B.
2) A vertical service space, other than an elevator hoistway, that passes through the floor assembly above the lowest exit storey, should be provided with a tight-fitting noncombustible seal or fire stop at the floor assembly of the storey immediately below the lowest exit storey, unless
a) the vertical service space is vented to the outdoors at the top and the vent has an openable area that is not less than
3-246 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
     curve A
curve B
100 90 80 70 60 50 40 30 20 10 0
0 50 100 150 200 250 300
Height of shaft, m
EG01222A
Minimum openable area of vent, % of cross-sectional area of shaft
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B A-3.2.6.3.(1)
i) that obtained from Figure A-3.2.6.2.(4)-A if the vertical service space is in a building in which other shafts are not mechanically pressurized, or
ii) that obtained from Figure A-3.2.6.2.(4)-B if the vertical service space is in a building in which other shafts are mechanically pressurized,
b) for a shaft that serves floor areas above the lowest exit storey, a vent is located
i) atornearthetopoftheshaftiftheshaftisabovethemid-heightofthebuilding,or
ii) at or near the foot of the shaft at or near the exit level if the top of the shaft is below the mid-height of the building, or
c) for a shaft that serves floor areas below the lowest exit storey, a vent is located at or near the top of the shaft.
3) Any closure provided for a vent opening referred to in Sentence (2) must be openable:
a) manually,
b) on a signal from a smoke detector located at or near the top of the shaft, and
c) by a control device located at the central alarm and control facility.
Figure A-3.2.6.2.(4)-B
Vent to a vertical service space with other pressurized shafts in the building
Notes to Figure A-3.2.6.2.(4)-B:
(1) CurveAappliestoaverticalservicespacethatisenclosedbyunplasteredunitmasonryorbyplasterandsteelstudconstructionwithall openings in the shaft sealed to the degree required by Articles 3.1.9.1. to 3.1.9.5.
(2) CurveBappliestoaverticalservicespacethatisenclosedbymonolithicconcreteorbyplasteredunitmasonrywithallopeningsintheshaft sealed tightly to minimize air leakage.
(3) Ashafthavingaventthatis100%ofthecross-sectionalareaoftheshaftisacceptableforbuildingsupto1.5timestheheightshownbythe appropriate curve in Figures A-3.2.6.2.(4)-A and A-3.2.6.2.(4)-B.
(4) Thetotalleakagearea,basedonmeasurementsintypicalhighbuildings,isassumedtobe0.025m2forevery10m2ofshaftwallareainthe case of Curve A and 0.015 m2 for every 10 m2 of shaft wall area in the case of Curve B.
A-3.2.6.2.(6) Smoke Propagation and Smoke Control Measures Implemented in the Building. The ventilation of corridors may be stopped if it interferes with the pressurizing of corridors, exits or central blocks to comply with part of the additional requirements for high buildings constructed before the coming into force of the NBC 1995 am. Quebec.
A-3.2.6.3.(1) Connected Buildings. The measures described here are intended to prevent movement of smoke from one building to another. They are of particular significance for two buildings of unequal height that are joined together. The techniques suggested are the provision of a large opening to the outdoors in
a connecting vestibule so that smoke entering through leakage areas around doors will be vented to the outdoors, or pressurization to maintain a higher pressure in the vestibule than in adjacent spaces, as illustrated in Figures A-3.2.6.3.(1)-A, A-3.2.6.3.(1)-B and A-3.2.6.3.(1)-C.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 3-247
   100 90 80 70 60 50 40 30 20 10 0
0 50 100 150 200 250 300
Height of shaft, m
EG01223A
 curve A
curve B
Minimum openable area of vent, % of cross-sectional area of shaft
  © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-3.2.6.3.(1) Division B
The provisions for protection of openings are described in terms appropriate to a doorway. Openings other than doorways should be avoided if possible. Openings should be protected by an airlock that gives the same standard of protection as the vestibule referred to below.
The requirement of Article 3.2.6.3. that limits movement of smoke from one building to another may be met by incorporating in the link between the buildings the provisions of Sentences (1) and (2).
1) A firewall conforming to Subsection 3.1.10. is constructed between one building and the other with any opening in the firewall protected against the passage of smoke by a vestibule that has
a) a fire separation between the vestibule and a public corridor with a fire-resistance rating not less than 45 min,
b) a fire separation between the vestibule and the remainder of the floor area, other than a public corridor, with a fire-resistance rating not less than that required by Article 3.4.4.1. for an exit,
c) a fire separation between the vestibule and a stair enclosure or elevator hoistway with a fire-resistance rating not less than that required by Article 3.4.4.1. for an exit, and
d) any door in the fire separation required by Clauses (a), (b) or (c), except for an elevator entrance, provided with a self-closing device as required by Article 3.1.8.13. and opening in the direction of travel from the floor area to the exit stairway.
2) The vestibule referred to in Sentence (1) should have
a) a vent to the outdoors that has a net area of 10(0.023 d + 0.00045 a) m2, where ’d’ is the number of
doors having a perimeter not more than 6 m that open into the vestibule, or if the perimeter of doors exceeds 6 m, the value ’d’ is increased in direct proportion to the increase in the perimeter, and ’a’ is the area in square metres of enclosing walls, floors and ceilings whose outer face is in contact with the outside air, except that where the outer face of a wall is in contact with the ground or fill, it is assumed that there is no leakage through that portion, and the value of ’a’ is assumed to be zero, or
b) equipment capable of maintaining a supply of air into the vestibule sufficient to ensure that the air pressure in the vestibule when the doors are closed is higher by at least 12 Pa than that in adjacent floor areas when the outdoor temperature is equal to the January design temperature on a 2.5% basis.
Figure A-3.2.6.3.(1)-A
Buildings connected by a tunnel
Figure A-3.2.6.3.(1)-B
Buildings connected at a firewall
3-248 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
     building A
    building B
    1 tunnel
1. Vestibule vented to outdoors or pressurized
grade EC01224A
        building A
    building B
   1
 1
1. Vestibules vented to outdoors or pressurized
grade EC01225A
   © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B A-3.2.6.6.(1)
Figure A-3.2.6.3.(1)-C
Buildings connected by a bridge
A-3.2.6.6.(1) Venting to Aid Firefighting. The requirements of Sentence 3.2.6.6.(1) are met by incorporating in a floor area windows or wall panels, as described in Sentence (1), by smoke shafts as described in Sentences (2) to (8), or by the use of building exhaust systems as described in Sentence (9).
1) If windows or wall panels are used for venting, they must
a) be uniformly distributed along the exterior wall of each storey,
b) have a total area not less than 1% of the exterior wall area of each storey,
c) be readily openable from the interior without the use of wrenches or keys,
d) be readily identified from the interior, and from the exterior where they are accessible to firefighters, and
e) be designed so that when opened they will not endanger persons outside the building during a fire.
2) If one or more smoke shafts or vertical service spaces are used for venting, they must
a) have an opening or openings into each storey with an aggregate area not less than that obtained
from Table A-3.2.6.6.(1)-A for the height of the building and the area of the largest floor area served by the smoke shaft, and the leakage characteristics of the shaft wall and closures obtained from Tables A-3.2.6.6.(1)-B and A-3.2.6.6.(1)-C,
b) have an aggregate unobstructed cross-sectional area equal to that required by Clause (a), and
c) be designed to comply with the requirements of Sentence (3).
3) Each smoke shaft or vertical service space described in Sentence (2) must
a) be separated from the remainder of the building by a fire separation that has a fire-resistance rating
not less than that required for the floor assembly through which it passes, or be designed as a
chimney conforming to Part 6, except that flue liners need not be provided,
b) have an opening to the outdoors at the top that has an area not less than the cross-sectional area of
the shaft, with the opening protected from the weather,
c) terminate not less than 900 mm above the roof surface where it penetrates the roof, and
d) contain no combustible material, fuel lines or services that are required for use in an emergency.
4) Each opening required by Clause (2)(a) must be located so that the top of the opening is not more than 250 mm below the ceiling, except that the opening may be above the ceiling if the ceiling freely allows passage of air.
5) The opening into the smoke shaft must be provided with a closure that
a) has a fire-protection rating conforming to Sentence 3.1.8.4.(2), except that the temperature on the
unexposed face of the closure shall be not more than 250 °C after 30 min during the fire test used to
determine its rating,
b) is no closer to combustible material, except for paint or tightly-adhering paper covering not
more than 1 mm thick applied to a noncombustible backing, than the distances described in
Table A-3.2.6.6.(1)-D,
c) can be opened from a remote location such as a stair shaft, the storey immediately below, or the
central alarm and control facility, and
d) does not open automatically on any floor, other than the fire floor, when smoke and hot gases
pass through the shaft.
6) Closures for openings described in Clause (3)(b) must
a) be openable from outside the shaft, and
b) open automatically
i) on a signal from a smoke detector in the shaft, ii) by operation of the fire alarm system, and
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division B
3-249
     building A
    building B
   1 bridge
  1. Vestibule vented to outdoors or pressurized
grade EC01226A
   © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-3.2.6.6.(1) Division B
iii) when the closure required by Sentence (5) opens.
7) A smoke shaft opening referred to in Sentence (2) that is less than 1 070 mm above the floor must conform to Article 3.3.1.18.
8) If a closure is required to comply with Sentence (5), the leakage area between closure components and between closure and frame must not be more than 3% of the openable area of the closure.
9) The building air handling system may be used for smoke venting, provided
a) the system can maintain an exhaust to the outdoors at the rate of 6 air changes per hour from any
floor area, and
b) emergency power to the fans providing the exhaust required by Clause (a) is provided as described
Floor Area, m2
200
500 1 000 2 000 3 000 4 000 5 000 6 000 200 500 1 000 2 000 3 000 4 000 5 000 6 000 200 500 1 000 2 000 3 000 4 000 5 000 6 000 200 500 1 000 2 000 3 000 4 000 5 000 6 000 200 500 1 000 2 000 3 000 4 000 5 000 6 000
Leakage
Building Height, m
73 110 146 183 220 256 293
0.20 0.22 0.41 0.43 0.75 0.77 1.34 1.39 1.90 1.97 2.44 2.53 2.88 3.07 3.47 3.58 0.43 0.55 0.83 1.04 1.43 1.73 2.48 2.95 3.47 4.08 4.40 5.16 5.32 6.21 6.20 7.23 4.60 89.57 6.11 94.50 8.29 102.11
12.14 116.80 15.63 130.83 19.97 144.03 22.15 157.05 25.39 169.29
3-250
Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
in Article 3.2.7.9.
Area,
0
1
2
3
4
%(3)
18 37
Table A-3.2.6.6.(1)-A
Minimum Size of Vent Openings into Smoke Shafts from Each Floor Area, m2(1)(2) Forming Part of Note A-3.2.6.6.(1)
0.10 0.11 0.13 0.15
0.22 0.25 0.29 0.32
0.43 0.48 0.53 0.59
0.83 0.91 1.01 1.08
1.21 1.33 1.46 1.55
1.62 1.75 1.90 2.02
2.01 2.17 2.34 2.46
2.39 2.57 2.76 2.91
0.10 0.12 0.15 0.19
0.23 0.27 0.35 0.40
0.44 0.50 0.71 0.72
0.85 0.97 1.15 1.33
1.26 1.42 1.67 1.91
1.66 1.88 2.18 2.49
2.07 2.32 2.69 3.05
2.47 2.76 3.18 3.59
0.10 0.13 0.18 0.24
0.24 0.29 0.39 0.52
0.46 0.55 0.72 0.94
0.88 1.05 1.34 1.73
1.31 1.53 1.95 2.47
1.73 2.01 2.55 3.20
2.15 2.49 3.13 3.92
2.57 2.96 3.73 4.63
0.11 0.14 0.21 0.37
0.25 0.31 0.47 0.76
0.47 0.59 0.86 1.33
0.91 1.12 1.60 2.41
1.35 1.64 2.31 3.43
1.79 2.17 3.02 4.43
2.22 2.68 3.71 5.42
2.65 3.20 4.40 6.39
0.11 0.15 0.28 0.70 24.83 0.25 0.34 0.58 1.33 29.18 0.49 0.63 1.06 2.27 36.07 0.95 1.21 1.97 3.99 48.56 1.41 1.78 2.84 6.63 60.15 1.86 2.34 3.70 7.22 71.15 2.21 2.90 4.55 8.79 81.81 2.75 3.46 5.40 10.33 90.05
0.16 0.18 0.19 0.36 0.37 0.39 0.63 0.67 0.71 1.16 1.22 1.29 1.67 1.75 1.82 2.15 2.25 2.35 2.63 2.74 2.86 3.10 3.23 3.37 0.22 0.27 0.35 0.49 0.57 0.69 0.86 1.01 1.19 1.56 1.81 2.10 2.23 2.56 2.97 2.37 3.28 3.79 3.51 3.99 4.60 4.14 4.68 5.37 0.37 0.61 1.28 0.75 1.13 2.10 1.30 1.90 3.27 2.32 3.28 5.36 3.29 4.58 7.28 4.23 5.83 9.12 5.15 7.05 10.90 6.07 8.26 12.65 0.88 2.06
1.58 9.00 2.60 11.99 4.47 17.46 5.21 22.48 7.91 27.29 9.55 31.95
11.18 36.47
        © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
A-3.2.6.6.(1)
Floor Area, m2
200
500
1 000
2 000
3 000
4 000
5 000
6 000
Leakage Area, %(3)
5
18 37
0.11 0.16 0.28 0.36 0.50 0.69 0.99 1.31 1.46 1.94 1.92 2.55 2.40 3.16 2.87 3.74
Table A-3.2.6.6.(1)-A (Continued)
Building Height, m
73 110 146 183 220 256 293
0.36 0.76 1.37 2.54 3.65 4.75 5.84 6.92
(1) The minimum size of a vent opening into a smoke shaft
area of the smoke shaft walls and closures. This total leakage area may be estimated by adding the leakage areas for the shaft wall obtained from Table A-3.2.6.6.(1)-B and for the dampered openings obtained from Table A-3.2.6.6.(1)-C, provided the cross-sectional area of the smoke shaft, the opening into the shaft and the opening to the outdoors at the top of the shaft are equal.
(2) The size of the vent opening refers to the free or unobstructed area of the opening.
(3) Leakage area is the total of the leakage area of smoke shaft wall obtained from Table A-3.2.6.6.(1)-B and the leakage area of openings in
smoke shafts obtained from Table A-3.2.6.6.(1)-C.
Notes to Table A-3.2.6.6.(1)-A:
Monolithic concrete
Masonry wall unplastered Masonry wall plastered Gypsum board on steel studs
0.5 1.5 0.5 1.0
Curtain fire damper Single-blade fire damper Multi-blade fire damper
Notes to Table A-3.2.6.6.(1)-C:
Wall Construction
Table A-3.2.6.6.(1)-B Leakage Area of Smoke Shaft Wall Forming Part of Note A-3.2.6.6.(1)
Leakage Area as % of Wall Area
Type of Closure
Leakage Area as % of Closure Area(1)(2)
2.5 3.5 4.5
3.33 5.09 7.67
12.35 16.75 20.99 25.11 29.11
is obtained from Table A-3.2.6.6.(1)-A and is dependant on the floor area and total leakage
Table A-3.2.6.6.(1)-C
Leakage Area of Closures in Openings into Smoke Shaft Forming Part of Note A-3.2.6.6.(1)
(1) Values include allowance for 0.5% leakage between frame and wall construction.
(2) These leakage data are based on clearances applicable to closures that have been tested in accordance with CAN/ULC-S112, “Fire Test of Fire
Damper Assemblies.”
Area of Closure(1), m2
Table A-3.2.6.6.(1)-D
Minimum Distance from Closure to Combustible Material Forming Part of Note A-3.2.6.6.(1)
0.5 0.35 1.0 0.50 1.5 0.60 2.0 0.70
2.5(2) 0.80
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division B
3-251
Minimum Distance in Front of or Above Closure, m
Minimum Distance to the Sides or Below Closure, m
0.20 0.25 0.30 0.35 0.40
             © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-3.2.6.7.(1)
Division B
Notes to Table A-3.2.6.6.(1)-D:
Table A-3.2.6.6.(1)-D (Continued)
(1) For closure areas between those given in Table A-3.2.6.6.(1)-D, interpolation may be used to determine the appropriate distances.
(2) For closure areas greater than 2.5 m2, the minimum distance in front of or above the closure shall be one half of the square root of the closure
area, and the minimum distance to the sides or below the closure shall be one quarter of the square root of the closure area.
A-3.2.6.7.(1) Protection of Central Control Room. The design of a room provided for a central alarm and control facility should take into account the nature and sensitivity of the electronic components of the equipment and the room should be adequately protected from fire and smoke. The room should be ventilated with a supply of fresh air so that it has a clean environment and should be provided with adequate lighting.
A-3.2.6.7.(2) Central Control Room Air Control. Depending on the method of mechanical venting and air control that is selected for the building, additional controls may be required at the central alarm and control facility. These additional controls include those with a capability of opening closures to vents in shafts, stopping air-handling systems, and initiating mechanical air supply to stair shafts.
A-3.2.6.9.(1) Testing for Smoke Control. The efficiency of a smoke control system may be checked by measuring pressure differences and the directions of airflow around doors and through separating walls of compartments. A pressure meter can be used to measure pressure differences on either side of a door or partition. Where this is impracticable, a punk stick held near a crack will indicate the direction of airflow. Measurements of airflow may be taken on the intake side of supply fans or in supply ducts to determine whether the specified airflow is being provided. In general, airflow should be from the spaces which may be occupied for various lengths of time during a fire emergency (e.g., vestibules, stair shafts, and elevator hoistways) toward the space in which the fire is assumed to have occurred. Measurements may be taken at certain critical locations to check the overall efficiency of the smoke control system.
In buildings where protection is obtained by venting corridors or vestibules to the outdoors, inspection of the building to determine whether the requirements have been met should be sufficient. Where service shafts are vented to the outdoors at the top, a check may be made of the wall between the shaft and the uppermost occupied floor areas, to ensure that the direction of flow is from each floor area into the shaft, when the vent to the outside is open and the outdoor air temperature is significantly less than that indoors. Where mechanically pressurized vestibules are used, a check may be made to ensure that the pressure in each vestibule or area of refuge is greater than that in the adjacent floor areas at each floor level.
Doors to stair shafts, elevator hoistways and vestibules in locations subject to pressure differences that may interfere with normal opening should be checked when the outdoor temperature is near the January design temperature, with the air injection system operating and a number of windows open to the outdoors on each floor in turn.
A-3.2.7.4.(1) Emergency Power Reliability. In some areas power outages are frequent and may be of long duration. These local conditions should be taken into account in determining the type of system for supplying emergency power for lighting. This should be studied at the planning stage of a building project in conjunction with the local fire safety and building officials.
A-3.2.7.6.(1) Emergency Power for Treatment Occupancies. CSA Z32, “Electrical Safety and Essential Electrical Systems in Health Care Facilities,” contains requirements for three classes of health care facilities—Class A, Class B and Class C. The intent of Article 3.2.7.6. is to apply specific requirements to emergency equipment for Class A facilities, which are designated as hospitals by the authorities having jurisdiction and where patients are accommodated on the basis of medical need and are provided with continuing medical care and supporting diagnostic and therapeutic services.
A-3.2.7.8.(3) Emergency Power Duration. The times indicated in this Sentence are the durations for which emergency power must be available for a building under fire emergency conditions. Additional fuel for generators or additional battery capacity is required to handle normal testing of the equipment, as indicated in the NFC. If the operation of emergency generators or batteries is intended for other than fire emergency conditions, such as power failures, fuel supplies or battery capacity must be increased to compensate for
that use.
3-252 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B A-3.2.8.2.(6)(c)
A-3.2.7.9.(1) Emergency Power Reliability. In some areas power outages are frequent and may be of long duration. These local conditions should be taken into account in determining the type of system for supplying emergency power for building services. This should be studied at the planning stage of a building project in conjunction with the local fire safety and building officials.
A-3.2.7.10.(2)(a) and (3)(a) Protection of Electrical Conductors. It is important to understand that electrical conductors are part of a system that includes—among other components—raceways, conduits, splices, couplings, vertical supports, grounds and pulling lubricants. When selecting electrical conductors to provide a circuit integrity rating, it is therefore important to understand how they will be installed and to know if the fire performance of the system as a whole was tested.
A-3.2.7.10.(5)(b) Electrical Conductors in the Same Room. If the distribution panel and the equipment it serves are within the same room, only the electrical conductors leading up to the distribution panel need to be protected. It is assumed that the distribution panel and the equipment it serves are within sufficient proximity to each other such that a fire in the same area of origin would affect both.
A-3.2.7.10.(7) Fire Alarm Branch Circuits. In order to ensure continuous operation of the fire alarm and voice communication systems in a high-rise building for a sufficient duration of time to control and direct the evacuation of building occupants, a level of protection is required by Sentence 3.2.7.10.(2) for those electrical conductors interconnecting the major elements of the fire alarm system. Sentence 3.2.7.10.(7) permits the protection of electrical conductors to be waived for portions connecting a transponder or fault isolation device to fire alarm input devices (fire detectors, manual stations, etc.) or a voice communication transponder to a fire alarm audible signalling device, provided all circuits or portions of the circuits are contained within the same storey.
A-3.2.8.2.(3) Special Protection of Opening. In manufacturing operations involving the use of conveyor systems to transport material through fire separations, it may not be possible to use standard closure devices. NFPA 80, “Fire Doors and Other Opening Protectives,” includes appendix information concerning protection of openings through vertical fire separations. NFPA 13, “Installation of Sprinkler Systems,” includes methods of protecting openings through floor assemblies, however, it is assumed by that standard that the remainder of the building would be sprinklered. Combinations of methods may be required to ensure that the level of safety inherent in the requirements of the Code is maintained.
A-3.2.8.2.(5) Opening in Floors. An opening of 10 m2 permitted for stairways, escalators or moving walks may not be located in the same volume as an opening permitted, in Sentence 3.2.8.2.(6), between the first storey and the storey immediately above or below. If those 2 waivers are used for the same volume, the actual resulting opening will have to conform to Articles 3.2.8.3. to 3.2.8.8.
To be able to provide an opening of 10 m2 for a stairway on all the storeys of the building and another larger opening between the first and the second storeys, the openings must be separated from each other by a fire separation with the fire-resistance rating required for the floor or according to Article 3.1.3.1.
A-3.2.8.2.(6)(b) Restriction on Size of Openings Through Floors. The phrase “used only for stairways, escalators or moving walks” is intended to restrict the size of a floor opening to what is necessary to accommodate the stairway, escalator or moving walk.
A-3.2.8.2.(6)(c) Waiver of Occupancy Separation Continuity. The typical application of this Sentence is to buildings with a mixture of occupancies that are randomly located throughout the building. Examples include shopping centres, podia of large commercial and business complexes, and recreational buildings that are combined with mercantile and business operations. A shopping mall with two interconnected storeys is an example that is frequently encountered in many jurisdictions. The permission to breach the
floor assembly between the storeys does not override requirements for separation of specific suites or occupancies. For instance, although storage garages are Group F, Division 3 occupancies, the requirement in Article 3.3.5.6. for the storage garage to be separated from other occupancies by a fire separation with at least a 1.5 h fire-resistance rating must be observed. In a similar manner, a theatre or cinema (Group A, Division
1 occupancy) must be separated from other occupancies in accordance with Sentence 3.3.2.2.(1) and seats in an arena-type building (Group A, Division 3) must be separated from space below in accordance with Sentence 3.3.2.2.(3).
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 3-253
  © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-3.2.8.4.(1)(c) Division B
A-3.2.8.4.(1)(c) Contamination of Vestibule. The vestibule should have equipment capable of maintaining a supply of air into the vestibule that is sufficient to ensure that the air pressure in the vestibule when the doors are closed is higher by at least 12 Pa than the air pressure in the adjacent floor areas when the outdoor temperature is equal to the January design temperature on a 2.5% basis.
A-3.2.8.7.(1) Smoke Exhaust System. The mechanical exhaust system is intended as an aid to firefighters in removing smoke and is to be designed to be actuated manually by the responding fire department. Although smoke is normally removed from the top of the interconnected floor space, exhaust outlets at other locations may be satisfactory.
A-3.2.9.1.(1) Testing of Fire Protection and Life Safety Systems. Building owners should verify that fire protection and life safety systems and their components (i.e. fire alarm systems, sprinklers, standpipes, smoke control, ventilation, pressurization, door hold-open devices, passenger elevator recalls, smoke and fire shutters and dampers, emergency power, emergency lighting, fire pumps, generators, etc.), including their interconnections with other building systems, are functioning according to the intent of their design. CAN/ULC-S1001, “Integrated Systems Testing of Fire Protection and Life Safety Systems,” provides the methodology for verifying and documenting that interconnections between building systems satisfy the intent of their design and that the systems function as intended by the Code.
A-3.3. Safety Within Floor Areas. Section 3.3. regulates safety within floor areas including rooms and other spaces within a building. The requirements are grouped according to the occupancy of the floor area, room or space, which is not necessarily the same as the major occupancy for which the building is classified. For example, a building may be classified by major occupancy as an office building: therefore, the provisions for structural fire protection and fire protection equipment for office buildings prescribed in Section 3.2. apply. However, within that building, a room or floor area may be used for mercantile, care, treatment, detention, business, residential, industrial or other occupancy.
Life safety for the occupants of any floor area depends in the first instance on the use or occupancy of that floor area. The risks to the occupants occur in the early stages of a fire. These special life risks differ from one occupancy to another and, consequently, must be regulated differently. Section 3.3. regulates risks within floor areas: these requirements apply regardless of the major occupancy of the building that contains the floor areas. For example, an assembly room must comply with the requirements for assembly occupancy whether it is contained in an office building, hospital, hotel, theatre, industrial building or other major occupancy.
Since this Code regulates new construction, alterations and changes of occupancy, the construction of kiosks and similar structures in public corridors must take into consideration all the requirements that apply to the remainder of the building, including structural fire protection, construction type, finish materials, egress widths and sprinkler installations. Special activities of an occasional nature that were not contemplated in the original design of a public corridor and that represent only a temporary change in occupancy are regulated by the NFC. These regulations include maintaining egress paths clear of obstructions, controlling combustible contents and providing measures to ensure quick response for firefighting.
A-3.3.1.2.(1) Hazardous Substances. The term “hazardous substances” refers to dangerous goods that are regulated by “Transportation of Dangerous Goods Regulations (TDGR)” or that are classified as “controlled products” under the “Workplace Hazardous Materials Information System (WHMIS)” established to meet the requirements of HC SOR/2015-17, “Hazardous Products Regulations.” It also refers to materials and products that are not regulated by the TDGR or WHMIS, but that pose a fire or explosion hazard due to their own properties or because of the manner in which they are stored, handled or used. These include combustible products, rubber tires, combustible fibres, combustible dusts, products producing flammable vapours or gases, etc.
A-3.3.1.2.(2) Cooking Equipment Ventilation. Cooking equipment manufactured for use in dwelling units and other residential suites is often installed in buildings used for assembly and care, treatment
or detention purposes. It is not obvious from the Code requirements or those of NFPA 96, “Ventilation Control and Fire Protection of Commercial Cooking Operations,” whether a ventilation and grease removal system is required in all assembly and care, treatment or detention uses. If the equipment is to be used in a manner that will produce grease-laden vapours that are substantially more than would be produced in a normal household environment, then it would be appropriate to apply the requirements of NFPA 96. If the equipment is used primarily for reheating food prepared elsewhere or is used occasionally for demonstration or educational purposes, there would be no expectation of applying the requirements of NFPA 96. In all cases the circumstances should be reviewed with the authority having jurisdiction.
3-254 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
  © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B A-3.3.2.1.(2)
A-3.3.1.3.(10) Public Corridor Leading Through a Lobby. For one end of a public corridor to lead through a lobby notwithstanding Sentence 3.3.1.3.(9), it must be possible, from a door having direct access
to a public corridor, to go to the 2 exits located in opposite directions. The corridor must be separated from the lobby in order to maintain the integrity and fire resistance required for the lobby, the corridor or the adjacent occupancies.
A-3.3.1.7.(1) Temporary Refuge for Persons with Disabilities. These measures are intended
to provide temporary refuge for persons with disabilities. It is acknowledged, however, that the measures cannot provide absolute safety for all occupants in the fire area. It may, therefore, be necessary to develop special arrangements in the fire safety plan to evacuate persons with disabilities from these areas. Details for a suitable plan are contained in the NFC.
The protected passenger elevator referred to in Clause 3.3.1.7.(1)(a) is intended to be used by firefighters as a means for evacuating persons with disabilities. It is not intended that this passenger elevator be used by persons with disabilities as a means of egress without the assistance of firefighters.
If an estimate is to be made of the number of persons with disabilities in a floor area who can be accommodated in each zone in Clause 3.3.1.7.(1)(b), this estimate may be based on Table 3.8.2.3., which is used to determine the minimum number of spaces to be provided for wheelchair occupants in fixed seating areas. If more precise information is available, it should be used for sizing the zones.
A-3.3.1.7.(1)(b) Zones. The floor area on either side of a horizontal exit conforming to Article 3.4.6.10. may be considered as a zone in applying the requirements of Article 3.3.1.7.
A-3.3.1.9.(4) Obstruction in Corridor. The sweep of a cane used by blind or visually impaired persons normally detects obstructions that are within 680 mm of the floor. Any obstruction above this height would not normally be detected and can, therefore, create a hazard if it projects more than 100 mm into the path of travel.
A-3.3.1.12.(3) Movable Partitions. Should an emergency situation arise outside of normal working hours but when occupants are still in the space, they could be left without a clear way out. This could occur during inventory or after closing time when all occupants have not yet left, but staff close the door to prevent other persons from entering. In many small tenant areas, the movable partitions (store fronts) provide the only way out. There should always be a second way out or a swinging door within or adjacent to the sliding partitions.
A-3.3.1.13.(4) Door Hardware. The permission to have additional door releasing devices is intended to allow the use of a security chain, night latch or dead bolt to supplement the normal door latching device. These are permitted for dwelling units and locations where guests in a hotel or motel require additional security. The height of these items is also governed by the maximum height stipulated in Sentence 3.3.1.13.(5) to ensure that they can be operated by persons with physical disabilities. This additional hardware should not require appreciable dexterity by the user and the general requirements on the ability to operate the device without the use of keys, special tools or specialized knowledge still apply.
A-3.3.1.13.(6) Controlled Egress Doors. It is intended that Sentence 3.3.1.13.(6) apply to doors used at the perimeter of a contained use area or an impeded egress zone. If the contained use area consists of a single room, the requirements would apply to that room. In the case of individual cells within a contained use
area, exterior keyed locks could be used on the cell doors consistent with the fire safety plan and continuous supervision by staff who can release the doors in an emergency.
A-3.3.1.23.(1) Obstructions in Means of Egress. Obstructions including posts, counters or turnstiles should not be located in a manner that would restrict the width of a normal means of egress from a floor area or part of a floor area unless an alternative means of egress is provided adjacent to and plainly visible from
the restricted means of egress.
A-3.3.2.1.(2) Use of NFPA 101. The intention of Sentence (2) is to allow Code users the option of using NFPA 101, “Life Safety Code,” to address the following issues: means of egress; egress routes within assembly occupancies; aisles and access serving seating not at tables; guards and railings; life safety evaluation; and smoke-protected assembly seating. However, opting to use NFPA 101 under this application entails adherence to all the provisions listed in Sentence (2): it is not intended that Code users randomly select and apply a
mix of provisions from both the NBC and the NFPA.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 3-255
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-3.3.2.4.(2) Division B
A-3.3.2.4.(2) Tablet Arms. Although it is intended that the motion to raise the tablet arm be essentially a single fluid motion, it is acceptable that the motion be a compound motion of raising the tablet arm and including an articulation to allow the tablet to fall back alongside the arm rest.
A-3.3.2.10. Installation Configurations of Handrails in Aisles with Steps. Figure A-3.3.2.10. illustrates possible installation configurations of handrails serving aisles with steps.
Figure A-3.3.2.10.
Handrail installation configurations
A-3.3.3.1.(1) Safety in Care, Treatment and Detention Occupancies. Fire safety for patients in bedroom areas in hospitals and nursing homes with treatment is predicated on the ability of staff to carry out at all times essential life safety functions in accordance with the fire safety plan. Details for a plan are contained in the NFC.
Many factors may affect the ability of staff to carry out life safety functions, including the mobility of patients who cannot fend for themselves and the built-in protection for patients who cannot be moved except under exceptional circumstances.
Should a patient area in a hospital or nursing home with treatment contain factors which would increase the time normally required for staff to evacuate patients or to undertake other life safety measures, consideration should be given to providing additional fire protection measures to ensure that equivalent safety is available.
3-256 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
    Centreline handrails Handrail at each row of seats
Aisle width of 1 100 mm or more Aisle width of less than 1 100 mm Aisles Serving Seating on Both Sides
                    Continuous side handrail
Aisle width of less than 1 100 mm
Centreline handrails
Aisle width of 1 100 mm or more Aisles Serving Seating on One Side
Handrail at each row of seats and a continuous side handrail
Aisle width of 1 100 mm or more
EG01394A
                                © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B A-3.3.6.1.(1)
A-3.3.3.3.(2) Dead-End Corridors. Corridors serving patients’ or residents’ sleeping rooms are permitted to have a dead-end portion not exceeding 1 m so that the wall can be set back at the location of the door. The dimension of 1 m corresponds roughly to the swing area of a sleeping room door.
A-3.3.3.4.(2) Doorway Width. The 1 050 mm minimum clear width of doorways accounts for door stops and, thus, is intended to allow for the use of 1 100 mm doors.
A-3.3.3.5.(9) Intercommunicating Rooms. Rooms that are interconnected can include more than one sleeping room, together with ensuite toilet rooms, shower rooms, and storage closets used for the storage of personal items of the persons occupying the sleeping rooms. It is not intended that storage rooms for other purposes be included within the group of interconnected rooms.
A-3.3.3.5.(13) Grilles and Louvres. In order to permit the supply of make-up air to compensate for the removal of exhaust air from these toilet rooms, shower rooms and similar spaces, it is permitted to incorporate grilles and louvres for the transfer of air provided the air movement cannot allow smoke to pass through these spaces to other parts of the building. It is considered that in normal designs the air is exhausted directly to
the exterior and is not circulated. If air is to be circulated back to other parts of the building, smoke operated dampers should be included in the air circulating system.
A-3.3.3.6.(1) Ventilation Systems for Areas of Refuge. The ventilation systems supplying such areas must be able to withstand a fire for 2 h. The electrical supply for these systems must also be protected against fire for 2 h.
A-3.3.4.4.(1) Landing in Egress Stairway. A landing level used in an egress stairway from a dwelling unit is not considered to be a storey of that dwelling unit if the landing is used only for pedestrian travel purposes.
A-3.3.4.5.(1) Automatic Locking Prohibited. Doors that must be manually reset to lock them when they are opened from the inside meet the intent of this requirement.
A-3.3.5.6.(1) Storage Garage Separated from Other Occupancies. According to the definition of the NBC, a storage garage is a space intended for parking and storage of motor vehicles and containing no provision for the repair or servicing of such vehicles. A bicycle, even if it is not a motor vehicle, is a vehicle (device intended for the transportation of persons or goods). It may therefore be parked or stored in a storage garage, at the end of an individual parking space or using shared bicycle racks. It may also be separated from the remainder of the garage by a partition but only if the partition has a fire separation with the fire-resistance rating required between a storage garage and the other occupancies, that is, a fire-resistance rating not less than 90 min. Otherwise, bicycles must not be separated from the remainder of the garage by a wire mesh or any other construction, metal or wooden bars, openwork or not.
Motorized mobility aids whose size is greater than that of an electric wheelchair, such as 3- wheel scooters, 4-wheel scooters or other similar vehicles, should be parked in the storage garage.
The motorized mobility aids and the bicycles should not be included in the number of motor vehicles.
A-3.3.6.1.(1) Design of Buildings Containing Dangerous Goods. Subsection 3.3.6. applies to the short- or long-term storage of products, whether raw or waste materials, goods in process, or finished goods.
This Subsection does not deal with products or materials that are directly supplied to appliances, equipment or apparatus through piping, hose, ducts, etc. For example, the gas cylinders that are mounted on propane barbecues are not covered by Subsection 3.3.6.; they are considered to be “in use” as opposed to “in storage” and are not intended to be regulated by the storage requirements stated in the NFC.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 3-257
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-3.3.6.2.(2) Division B
A-3.3.6.2.(2) Storage of Reactive Materials. Reactive materials include various classes of unstable or reactive dangerous goods, such as flammable solids, pyrophoric materials, oxidizers, corrosives, water-reactive substances and organic peroxides.
In general, it is unsafe to store highly reactive oxidizers close to liquids with low flash points, combustible products or chemically incompatible products. Quantities of oxidizers or other dangerously reactive materials should therefore be limited and the storage area should be constructed of noncombustible materials, should be kept cool and ventilated, and should not impede egress.
In some cases, depending on the quantity and nature of the oxidizing agent, normal fire protection measures (e.g. sprinklers, fire hose and extinguishers) are ineffective due to the self-yielding of oxygen by the oxidizing agent.
When containers of highly reactive oxidizers become damaged or are exposed to excessive heat, humidity or contamination (e.g. sawdust, petroleum products, or other chemicals), a very violent fire or explosion can result.
The following oxidizing substances, among others, are known to supply oxygen: organic and inorganic peroxides; pool chemicals (e.g. calcium hypochlorite, sodium dichloroisocyanurate); oxides; permanganates; perrhenates; chlorates; perchlorates; persulfates; organic and inorganic nitrates; bromates; iodates; periodates; perselenates; chromates, dichromates; ozone; perborates.
When containers of dangerously reactive materials become damaged or are exposed to water or humidity, a flammable gas (such as hydrogen, ammonia or methane) or a toxic gas (such as hydrogen chloride, hydrogen bromide or phosphine) can be released.
The following dangerously reactive materials, among others, are known to release a flammable gas in reaction to contact with water or humidity: alkali metals (e.g. sodium, potassium, cesium); reactive metals (e.g. zinc, aluminum, magnesium); metallic hydride (e.g. sodium borohydride, germanium tetrahydride, calcium hydride).
The following dangerously reactive materials, among others, are known to release a toxic gas in reaction to contact with water or humidity: organic and inorganic chloride (e.g. phosphorus trichloride, phosphorus oxide trichloride, acetyl chloride); organic and inorganic bromide (e.g. phosphorus tribromide, aluminum tribromide, acetyl bromide).
A-3.3.6.2.(4) Wiring and Electrical Equipment in Hazardous Locations. In addition to the general requirements of CSA C22.1, “Canadian Electrical Code, Part I,” special attention must be given to Sections 18, 20 and 22: Section 18 specifies wiring requirements for Class I, II and III hazardous locations; Section 20 provides specific requirements for areas where flammable or combustible liquids are stored or dispensed; Section 22 specifies wiring requirements for areas where corrosive liquids or vapours or excessive moisture are present.
A-3.3.6.4.(2) Explosion Venting in Hazardous Locations. When a flammable mixture of air and vapour/gas/dust is ignited and causes an explosion, the exothermic reaction results in the rapid expansion of heated gases and the corresponding pressure waves travel through the mixture at sonic or supersonic velocities. The pressures developed by an explosion very rapidly reach levels that most buildings and equipment cannot withstand unless specifically designed to do so. Explosion venting consists of devices designed to open at a predetermined pressure to relieve internal pressure build-up inside a room or enclosure, hence limiting the structural and mechanical damage.
The major parameters to be considered in designing an explosion venting system for a building are:
• the physical and chemical properties of the flammable air mixture, such as the particle size or the
droplet diameter, the moisture content, the minimum ignition temperature and explosive concentration, the burning velocity or explosibility classification, the maximum explosion pressure and the rate of pressure rise,
• theconcentrationanddispersionoftheflammablemixtureintheroom,
• the turbulence and physical obstructions in the room,
• thesizeandshapeoftheroom,thetypeofconstructionanditsabilitytowithstandinternalpressures,and
• the type, size and location of relief panels, which should also be designed to reduce the possibility of
injury to people in the immediate vicinity of the panels.
3-258 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
  © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B A-3.4.3.2.(6)
A-3.3.6.5.(1) Measurement of Tire Storage Volume. The volume of tires in a storage area can be determined by measuring to the nearest 0.1 m the length, width and height of the piles or racks intended to contain the tires. In racks, the top shelf is assumed to be loaded to maximum possible height, while observing required clearances between structural elements and sprinklers.
A-3.3.6.6.(6) Products Stored with Ammonium Nitrate. Copper and its alloys should not be used where they can come into contact with ammonium nitrate. The presence of copper represents the single biggest hazard with respect to the accidental detonation of ammonium nitrate during a fire.
Steel and wood can be protected with special coatings such as sodium silicate, epoxy, or polyvinyl chloride.
Asphalt and similar hydrocarbon-based roof coverings should not be used. Stored ammonium nitrate may become sensitized during a fire if such roof coverings melt and leak into the interior of the building, causing burning droplets to fall on the stored product.
A-3.4.1.1.(1) Type of Exit Facility. The requirements for exits in Section 3.4. were developed for new construction. If alterations are made to an existing building or changes of occupancy occur, other design solutions than those in Section 3.4. may have to be developed to maintain an acceptable level of safety if it is not practicable to fully conform to the requirements of this Section. In some cases the use of fire escapes to supplement the existing exit facilities may be the only practicable solution. Because of the variety of conditions that may be encountered in existing buildings, it is difficult to standardize or codify such requirements. Alternative means of providing acceptable levels of safety may have to be tailored to the particular building design. In all cases, however, the requirements described in Section 3.4. are intended to provide the level
of safety to be achieved. If alternative measures are used, they should develop the level of safety implied in these requirements.
A-3.4.1.6.(2) Sleeping Area. Areas serving patients’ sleeping rooms include sleeping areas and areas where patients are taken for treatment.
A-3.4.2.3.(1) Least Distance Between Exits. The least distance measurement does not apply to each combination of exits on a multi-exit storey. It only applies to at least 2 of the required exits from that storey.
A-3.4.3.2.(6) Evacuation of Interconnected Floor Space. This Sentence ensures that egress facilities allow for the simultaneous evacuation of all portions of an interconnected floor space. It does not contemplate the phased evacuation of occupants; thus in buildings where that type of evacuation is intended, fire protection requirements in addition to those prescribed in the Code may be necessary.
In the first instance, this Sentence provides for cumulative exiting that can accommodate the efficient movement of all occupants in the exit stairs. Clause 3.4.3.2.(6)(a) permits an alternative approach that will accommodate all the occupants in the stairs but will restrict the egress flow rate. Clause 3.4.3.2.(6)(b) provides a second alternative that assumes the occupants must queue before entering the stair. A “protected floor space” conforming to Article 3.2.8.5. is intended to provide an intermediate area of safety that is protected from the hazards of the interconnected floor space. It does not provide a holding or refuge area for all occupants of a floor area for an extended period of time.
To ensure that evacuation is not unduly delayed and that queuing of the occupants in the protected floor space can be accommodated, requires careful consideration in the design of the interface between the interconnected floor space/protected floor space/exit.
It is not appropriate, for example, to share a common vestibule in complying with Sentences 3.2.8.4.(1)
and 3.2.8.5.(1). Under evacuation conditions, occupants entering the vestibule would flow towards the exit, as opposed to the protected floor space, thus resulting in queuing outside the vestibule and potential exposure to fire. To comply with the intent, it is necessary to design the egress path such that the occupants enter the protected floor space through a vestibule, then in turn enter the exit stair from the protected floor space. In addition, sufficient space should be provided between the vestibule and the exit to allow for the queuing of occupants in the protected floor space.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 3-259
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-3.4.3.2.(6)(a) Division B
A-3.4.3.2.(6)(a) Temporary Safety Area. The objective of Clause 3.4.3.2.(6)(a) is to provide an area of temporary safety in the exit stair shafts for the occupants of the interconnected floor space. This requirement is considered to be met if 0.3 m2 per person is provided in the stair shaft between the floor level served and the floor level immediately beneath it.
A-3.4.3.4. Clear Height and Width. Clear height is intended to be measured from a line tangent to the nosings extended to the underside of the lowest element above the walking surface, over the clear width of the exit (see Figure A-3.4.3.4.). Examples of low elements above the walking surface include light fixtures or sprinkler heads and piping.
Clear width is intended to be measured from a line tangent to horizontal protrusions such as handrails.
Figure A-3.4.3.4. Measuring clear height
A-3.4.4.2.(2) Lobbies. Since lobbies must conform to the requirements for exits, no occupancies are permitted in them, except those listed in Clause 3.4.4.2.(2)(e). Consequently, they are not permitted to be used as waiting or rest areas.
A-3.4.4.2.(2)(e) Requirements for Lobby. If an exit is permitted to lead through a lobby, the lobby must provide a level of protection approaching that of the exit. As well as meeting the width and height requirements for exits, the lobby must be separated from the remainder of the building by a fire separation having a fire-resistance rating at least equal to that required for the exit, unless one of the exceptions in this Clause is applied.
A-3.4.5.1.(2)(c) Graphical Symbols for Exit Signs. ISO 7010, “Graphical symbols – Safety colours and safety signs – Registered safety signs,” identifies the following internationally recognized symbols for use at required exits.
3-260 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
   clear width
   clear height
clear height
 EG00691A
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B A-3.4.6.4.
Figure A-3.4.5.1.(2)(c)-A
“Emergency exit left” (E001) symbol from ISO 7010
Figure A-3.4.5.1.(2)(c)-B
90-degree directional arrow (E005) from ISO 7010
A-3.4.5.1.(4) Externally Illuminated Signs. An external lighting source is required to properly charge photoluminescent signs. These types of signs must be lit in conformance with the charging requirements indicated on the exit signs in accordance with CAN/ULC-S572, “Photoluminescent and Self-Luminous Exit Signs and Path Marking Systems.”
A-3.4.6. Application to Means of Egress. The requirements in Subsection 3.4.6. apply to interior and exterior exits, as well as to ramps, stairways and passageways used by the public as access to exit. The treads, risers, landings, handrails and guards for the latter access to exit facilities must thus be provided in conformance with the appropriate requirements for exit facilities.
A-3.4.6.4. Dimensions of Landings. A landing is a floor area provided at the top or bottom of a flight of stairs or a ramp, or a platform built as part of a stairway or ramp. Landings provide a safe surface for users to rest upon, allow design flexibility, and facilitate a change in direction.
Figure A-3.4.6.4. illustrates how to measure the length of a landing for various landing configurations turning less than 90°, including straight landings.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 3-261
 GG00175A
       GG00174A
  © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-3.4.6.4.
Division B
Figure A-3.4.6.4. Landing configurations Notes to Figure A-3.4.6.4.: (1)
L1+L2 =lengthofthelanding
= the lesser of the required width of the stair or ramp, or 1 100 mm
See Sentences 3.4.6.4.(2) and 9.8.6.3.(2). (2)
D =distancefromthenarrowedgewherethelengthofthelandingismeasured = half the required length of the landing
See Sentences 3.4.6.4.(3) and 9.8.6.3.(3).
3-262
Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
     430 mm
  required width = 860 mm D L1 + L2 ≥ 860 mm
D = 430 mm
860 mm
L2
L1 required width = 900 mm L1 + L2 ≥ 900 mm
D = 450 mm
900 mm
550 mm
450 mm
D
L1
   Stairs within dwelling units
550 mm
D
L2
L1
required width = 1 100 mm
L1 + L2 ≥ 1 100 mm D = 550 mm
Exit ramp
(not part of a barrier-free path of travel)
L2
Public stairs
         1 100 mm
D
L2
L1
2 000 mm
required width = 2 000 mm L1 + L2 ≥ 1 100 mm
D = 550 mm
Wide stairs
EG01397A
  © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B A-3.5.2.1.(1)
A-3.4.6.5.(4) Wider Stairs than Required. The intent of Sentence 3.4.6.5.(4) is that handrails be installed in relation to the required exit width only, regardless of the actual width of the stair and ramp. The required handrails are provided along the assumed natural path of travel to and from the building.
A-3.4.6.5.(10) Continuity of Handrail. Blind or visually-impaired persons rely on handrails to guide them on stairways. A continuous handrail will assist them in negotiating stairs at changes in direction.
The extended handrail is useful to persons with physical disabilities to steady themselves before using the stairs. Handrails should, however, return to the wall, floor or post, so as not to constitute a hazard to blind or visually-impaired persons.
A-3.4.6.10.(5) Door Swing. Although it is required that the door on the right hand side of a pair of doors shall swing in the direction of travel through the exit, the direction of swing of the door on the left side will depend on the function of the horizontal exit. If the horizontal exit provides for movement from one building to the adjacent building but does not require movement in the reverse direction, both doors must swing in the direction of travel to the adjacent building. If the design is based upon both buildings providing complementary movement in either direction, then the doors must swing in opposite directions. Location of a required exit sign directly above a door that swings in the direction of travel is deemed to meet the intent of Clause 3.4.6.10.(5)(b).
A-3.4.6.11.(4) Exit Concealment. Hangings or draperies placed over exit doors may conceal or obscure them.
A-3.4.6.16.(1) Fastening Device. Turnpieces of a type which must be rotated through an angle of more than 90° before releasing a locking bolt are not considered to be readily openable. The release of a locking bolt should allow the door to open without having to operate other devices on the door.
A-3.4.6.16.(4) Electromagnetic Lock. Electromagnetic locks are intended for use where there is a need for security additional to that provided by traditional exit hardware. They are not intended for indiscriminate use as alternative locking devices. The design of these devices requires evaluation to ensure that their operation will be fail-safe in allowing exiting in the event of foreseeable emergencies. If more than one locking device is used in a building, it is expected that one switch will release and reset all devices simultaneously.
A-3.4.6.16.(5) Electromagnetic Locks in Care and Treatment Occupancies. The installation of electromagnetic locks in care and treatment occupancies requires special provisions to address the compromised condition of residents and the nature of daily operations. Accordingly, to reduce the incidence of false operation by residents, transparent boxes that set off an audible signal when opened can be installed to cover the manual stations. Also, one optional additional release device (e.g. swipe card device, key pad) can be installed to facilitate the free movement of staff and visitors in the building.
A-3.4.6.17.(1) Special Security for Doors. The need for security in banks and in mercantile occupancies requires the ability to use positive locking devices on doors that may not readily be opened from inside the building. In a fully sprinklered building, the risk to persons inside the building is substantially reduced. The provisions of Sentences 3.4.6.17.(2) to (9) assume that the area is illuminated and that a means of communication is available to any occupant during times that the doors are locked.
A-3.4.6.19.(1)(d) Colour Contrast. The identification of floor and other signs intended to facilitate orientation for visually-impaired persons should offer maximum colour contrast to be effective. For this reason, it is recommended that white on black or black on white be used, as this combination produces the best legibility. It is also recommended that the sign surfaces be processed to prevent glare.
A-3.5.2.1.(1) Elevator Design. The reference to ASME A17.1/CSA B44, “Safety Code for Elevators and Escalators,” in this Sentence implies conformance with all requirements of that standard for elevator cars, hoistways, pits and machine rooms, including restrictions on other services in these areas and detailed design criteria.
It should be noted that limited use and limited application elevators must have a maximum elevation of
7.6 m (25 ft.) according to the 2000 edition of ASME A17.1/CSA B44, “Safety Code for Elevators and Escalators.”
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 3-263
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-3.5.4.1.(1) Division B
A-3.5.4.1.(1) Elevator Car Dimensions. In some circumstances it is necessary to maintain a patient on a stretcher in the prone position during transit to a hospital or to treatment facilities. Inclining the stretcher to load it into an elevator could be fatal or at the very least detrimental to the patient’s health. Many ambulance services use a mobile patient stretcher whose size is 2 010 mm long and 610 mm wide. As well as space for the stretcher in the elevator, there should be sufficient additional space for at least two attendants who may also be providing treatment during transit.
A-3.6.2.5.(1) Combustible Refuse Storage. Storage of refuse consisting of combustible materials including waste paper, cardboard and plastic, and noncombustible materials such as glass and metallic containers can be accumulated in these rooms for the purpose of recycling. This storage is allowed in consideration of a less stringent collection schedule when compared to that of garbage or refuse, which is collected regularly.
A-3.6.2.7.(5) Explosion Relief. Examples of good engineering practice for this application can be found in NFPA 68, “Explosion Protection by Deflagration Venting,” NFPA 69, “Explosion Prevention Systems,” and the NFPA “Fire Protection Handbook.”
A-3.6.3.1.(1) Vertical Service Spaces. Sentence 3.6.3.1.(1) does not prohibit the internal subdivision of a vertical service space to allow different building services to be installed in physically separated spaces unless other requirements apply (see, for example, Sentences 3.2.7.10.(2) and (3)). Fire separation requirements apply to the perimeter of the group of service spaces. Article 3.6.3.3. has special requirements for linen chutes and refuse chutes.
A-3.6.4.2.(2) Ceiling Membrane Rating. In construction assemblies that utilize membrane ceiling protection and have been assigned a fire-resistance rating on the basis of a fire test, the membrane is only one of the elements that contribute to the performance of the assembly and does not in itself provide the protection implied by the rating. For the fire-resistance rating of membrane materials used in this form of construction, reference should be made to the results of fire tests which have been conducted to specifically evaluate the performance of this element.
A-3.6.5.6.(2) Clearance for Warm-Air Supply Ducts. Applicable to forced-air furnaces where permissible clearance C above plenum is 75 mm or less.
Figure A-3.6.5.6.(2)
Clearance for warm-air supply ducts
A-3.6.5.6.(3) Clearance for Warm-Air Supply Ducts. Applicable to forced-air furnaces where permissible clearance C above plenum is more than 75 mm but not more than 150 mm.
Figure A-3.6.5.6.(3)
Clearance for warm-air supply ducts
3-264 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
      plenum
C
12 mm min.
   supply duct 450 mm min.
  EG01206A
         C
12 mm min.
supply duct
   1 800 mm min.
 plenum
  EG01207A
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B A-3.8.2.2.
A-3.6.5.6.(4) Clearance for Warm-Air Supply Ducts. Applicable to forced-air furnaces where permissible clearance C above plenum is more than 150 mm.
Figure A-3.6.5.6.(4)
Clearance for warm-air supply ducts
A-3.7.2.2.(1) Water Closets. Sentence 3.7.2.2.(1) assumes that there will be a sufficient number of persons in the building to justify the provision of separate water closet facilities for both males and females. In some circumstances overall low occupant loads would not require more than one water closet for males and one water closet for females and yet the building has more than one storey. It is deemed that rooms each containing a single water closet available for both males and females would satisfy the intent of the Code. The total number of water closets must be adequate for the total number of occupants. Requirements for barrier free accessibility also need to be considered. If the entrance storey is accessible and the upper storeys are not required to be accessible, a room in the accessible storey must meet the requirements of Section 3.8. and can serve both males and females. If provided, a nonaccessible room, designed to serve both males and females, in each nonaccessible upper storey would be acceptable. Sentence 3.7.2.2.(4) permits a single water closet to serve both males and females if the total occupant load is low.
A-3.7.2.7.(4) Floor Drain. Where a water heater is installed in a ceiling space and is equipped with a drip tray indirectly linked to the sanitary system, the tray replaces the floor drain.
A-3.8. Barrier-Free Design Assumptions. This Section contains minimum provisions to accommodate a person using a typical manual wheelchair or other manual mobility assistance devices such as walking aids, including canes, crutches, braces and artificial limbs.
A-3.8.2.1. Accessibility. Industrial buildings often pose a greater risk to their occupants due to the presence of significant quantities of dangerous materials or the use of hazardous processes. For example, plants which are classified as Group F, Division 2 or 3, may store and use toxic or highly flammable substances
in significant quantities, or house processes which involve very high temperatures and which have a high degree of automation. In some facilities, particularly in primary industries such as forestry and metallurgy, the construction normally used and the operations carried out within the space can make compliance with the requirements of Section 3.8. impracticable. It is therefore intended that these requirements be applied with discretion in buildings of Group F, Division 2 or 3 major occupancy. However, where industrial buildings contain subsidiary occupancies, such as offices or showrooms, it is reasonable to require that accessibility be provided in these spaces.
A-3.8.2.2. Entrances. An accessible route should exist from the sidewalk or roadway and parking area to an accessible building entrance. This route should be located so that persons with physical disabilities
do not have to pass behind parked cars.
To provide more general access to buildings, not less than 50% of the pedestrian entrances are required to be barrier-free. This should include a principal entrance. If the 50% calculation results in a fraction, the number of barrier-free entrances should be the next higher unit value. For the purpose of determining the number of entrances to a building, several adjacent doors in a bank of doors are considered to be a single entrance.
Service entrances such as those for delivery and receipt of goods, and those for access to Group F service rooms and workshops need not be made accessible.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 3-265
    25 mm min.
     C
150 mm min.
1 000 mm
min. 1 800 mm min.
    plenum
   supply duct
     EG01208A
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-3.8.2.3. Division B
A-3.8.2.3. Access to Rooms and Facilities. If barrier-free access is required into suites or rooms in Subsection 3.8.2., it is intended that access be provided, with some exceptions identified in Sentence 3.8.2.3.(2), throughout each room or suite. Some examples of where barrier-free access is required are as follows:
• within each suite (subject to Clauses 3.8.2.3.(2)(j) to (l)),
• within rooms or areas that serve the public or are designated for use by visitors, including areas in
assembly occupancies with fixed seats, display areas and merchandising departments,
• within rooms or areas for student use in assembly occupancies,
• within general work areas, including office areas,
• withingeneraluseorgeneralserviceareas,includingsharedlaundryareasinresidentialoccupancies,
recreational areas, cafeterias, lounge rooms, lunch rooms and infirmaries,
• withinsleepingroomsinhospitalsandnursinghomeswithtreatment,
• (ifinstalled),intoatleastonepassengerelevatororliftforpersonswithphysicaldisabilitiesconformingto
Articles 3.5.2.1. and 3.8.3.7.,
• into washrooms described in Sentences 3.8.2.8.(1) to (4),
• toanyfacilityrequiredbythisSectiontobedesignedtoaccommodatepersonswithphysicaldisabilities,
• onto every balcony provided in conformance with Clause 3.3.1.7.(1)(c), and
• to service counters used by the general public (examples include ticket counters, refreshment stands,
drinking fountains, cafeteria counters, checkout counters and bank service counters).
The permission to waive a barrier-free path of travel for wheelchair access to certain specified areas of a building is not intended to waive accessibility requirements for persons whose physical disabilities do not require special provision for access to raised or sunken levels. Persons with visual or hearing disabilities that do not require the use of a wheelchair can be expected to move throughout a building.
The concept of providing similar amenities and facilities applies, among other things, to food, beverage, and entertainment facilities within restaurants, to smoking and non-smoking areas permitted in accordance with local regulations, and to window areas providing a view of an exterior attraction.
Availability of specific spaces depends on reservation policy and the sequence in which patrons arrive at a restaurant or other facility, and therefore is beyond the scope of this Code.
Accessibility “within” a floor area means that in general all normally occupied spaces are to be accessible, except those areas which are deemed not to require barrier-free access. Examples of excluded floor areas are small raised office areas in retail and industrial premises and storage platforms in industrial and other occupancies.
Accessibility for a person in a wheelchair does not extend to building service facilities, nor to all floor levels within a storey, e.g., mezzanines not served by an elevator. Mezzanines that are accessible by an elevator are therefore not excluded.
A-3.8.2.3.(2)(j) Barrier-free Path of Travel. Where all the spaces referred to in Subsection 3.8.4. or 3.8.5. are located at the entry level of the dwelling unit, the barrier-free path of travel need not extend to the other levels of the dwelling unit.
It is possible to provide the spaces referred to in Subsection 3.8.4. or 3.8.5. at a level other than the entry level of the dwelling unit. The barrier-free path of travel must then extend to that other level. The installation of a ramp or an elevator or a lift for persons with physical disabilities is then required.
There are several types of lifts for persons with physical disabilities and the lifting device chosen must conform to all the requirements of the Code, including the requirements in CSA B355, “Lifts for Persons with Physical Disabilities.” Even if the barrier-free path of travel requires a lift for persons with physical disabilities, the installation of a stair chair lift is permitted in a dwelling unit.
Where the lifting device chosen is a stair chair lift or a stair platform lift, the lifting device shall be installed when the building is constructed.
The stair must have a clear width of 860 mm in addition to the width required for the device deployed. The width necessary for the installation and use of the device varies on the basis of the device chosen:
3-266
Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
• •
forastairchairlift,notlessthan650mminadditiontothe860mm,thatis,astairwidthnotlessthan 1 510 mm, is to be provided; forastairplatformlift,notlessthan1000mminadditiontothe860mm,thatis,astairwidthnotless than 1 860 mm, is to be provided.
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B A-3.8.2.8.(1) to (4)
Figure A-3.8.2.3.(2)(j)
Clear width of a stairway in a dwelling unit of residential occupancy
A-3.8.2.4.(1) Access to Storeys Served by Escalators and Moving Walks. In some buildings, escalators and inclined moving walks are installed to provide transportation from one floor level to another floor level so as to increase the capacity to move large numbers of persons. Some buildings located on a sloping site are accessible from street level on more than one storey and an escalator or inclined moving walk is provided for internal movement from floor to floor. In both these situations, a person with a physical disability must be provided with an equally convenient means of moving between the same floor levels within the building. This can be accomplished by providing elevators or a lift for persons with physical disabilities.
A-3.8.2.5.(1) Access to Exterior Parking. It is not intended that a separate accessible entrance must be provided from the exterior parking area. The designer may choose to designate the entrance leading to the exterior parking area as the required entrance or to provide a properly identified and unobstructed path of travel from the parking area to the entrance which is accessible. The entrance chosen should, in any case, be one normally used by the occupants of the building. Long paths of travel are not recommended.
A-3.8.2.8.(1) to (4) Washrooms. The primary intent of this requirement is that all regular washrooms be made accessible to all persons, including persons with disabilities, primarily persons who must use a wheelchair. Well-designed washrooms which can accommodate disabled persons need not be much larger than conventional washrooms.
The exception in Clause 3.8.2.8.(2)(b) recognizes situations where several washrooms may be provided on a large floor area. In such a case, not all washrooms need to be barrier-free, provided that a barrier-free washroom is available within a reasonable distance (45 m) of one that is not and that the location of that barrier-free washroom is clearly indicated as required by Sentence 3.8.2.10.(2).
Clause 3.8.2.8.(2)(c) is intended to address “strip malls” (a shopping mall with no public corridor). Section 3.7., which requires plumbing facilities, does not address the concept of suite and could permit, for instance, a shopping mall containing only Group E occupancies (assuming the mall is more than 100 m2) to have only one washroom for each sex located in any one of the suites. It is desirable, however, that washrooms be located
so as to be accessible at all times, since the owner or tenant of one suite has no control over the activities of another. These buildings may have either public barrier-free washrooms in a central location or washrooms which can accommodate persons with physical disabilities in each suite. This arrangement relieves any one tenant from having to provide “public” washrooms. Hence, the exception for suites of less than 250 m 2 is meant as a relaxation to avoid an unnecessary burden on small facilities but should not be construed as meaning that these buildings need not provide accessible washrooms.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 3-267
   860 mm min.
             860 mm min.
 GG00552a
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-3.8.2.11.(1) Division B
Those washrooms are practical because they may be used by both men and women.
A-3.8.2.11.(1) Counters with Work Surfaces. It is not intended that all counters be barrier-free, but that sufficient barrier-free counter space be available. Examples of counters that should be barrier-free include check-in counters and those in financial institutions and reception areas as well as any counter at which processing and signing of documents takes place. The provision is not intended to apply to work surfaces in industrial occupancies.
A-3.8.2.13.(1) Dwelling Unit of Residential Occupancy. A minimally accessible dwelling unit is a dwelling unit whose design integrates amenities in certain parts of the dwelling unit that make it possible to meet the needs of a person with one or more disabilities (visitability).
An adaptable dwelling unit is a dwelling unit whose design is such that it may be easily adapted to the specific needs of a person with one or more disabilities.
A-3.8.3.1.(1) Barrier-free Design Standards. Code users who opt to apply the CSA B651 provisions listed in Table 3.8.3.1. must do so without exception: they cannot randomly select and apply a mix of provisions from the NBC and that standard.
A-3.8.3.2.(2) Surfaces in a Barrier-free Path of Travel. Floor finishes, including walk-off matts and carpet, should be selected, installed and securely fixed to provide a firm and stable surface so that persons using wheelchairs, walkers or other mobility aids can easily travel over them without tripping or expending undue energy. Other than very high-density, short-pile carpeting, most carpeting does not meet these criteria.
Furthermore, where the path of travel is exposed to intense light conditions, such as daylight or directional lighting, a low-glare or matte floor surface should be selected, as glare from floor surfaces can influence all users’ perception and be particularly problematic for persons with low vision. For the same reasons, heavily patterned flooring should also be avoided.
A-3.8.3.5.(1)(b) Ramp Slopes. Ramps with a slope of more than 1 in 16 can be very difficult for persons with physical disabilities with upper body mobility to manage. Even though they pose less of a problem for persons in motorized wheelchairs, these ramps can be unsafe to descend, especially in cold climates. Although Article 3.8.3.5. permits slopes on ramps as great as 1 in 12 for distances of up to 9 m, slopes of 1 in 20 are safer and less strenuous. When limited space is available, as may be the case during renovations, ramps with a slope of up to 1 in 12 should be restricted to lengths not exceeding 3 m whenever possible. A strip contrasting in colour and texture should be used at the top and bottom of ramps to warn persons with low or no vision.
A-3.8.3.5.(1)(c) Landing Design at Doorways Leading to Ramps.
Figure A-3.8.3.5.(1)(c)
Landing design at doorways leading to ramps
3-268 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
      1500 mm min.
600 mm min.
300 mm min.
1500 mm min.
ramp
EG01211A
         1500 mm min.
     ramp
  1500 mm min.
       © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B A-3.8.3.6.(2)
A-3.8.3.5.(4)(a) Surface of Ramps. Sentence 3.8.3.2.(2) requires that all walking surfaces in a barrier-free path of travel be stable and firm to limit the effort required by persons using wheelchairs or other mobility aids. Therefore, Sentence 3.8.3.5.(4) requires that hard or resilient flooring be used on the surfaces of steeper ramps. Furthermore, carpet and like materials should not be installed on any ramp.
A-3.8.3.6.(2) Doorway Width. Standard wheelchair width specifications indicate a range of sizes from 584 mm overall to 685 mm overall. Every doorway that is located in a barrier-free path of travel must have a clear width of not less than 800 mm when the door is in the open position and therefore it is important that this dimension be measured correctly. Figure A-3.8.3.6.(2) shows a door opened to 90°. It is clear that the door, and to a lesser extent the stop, impinges on the space within the door frame. The clear width of not less than 800 mm is measured from the face of the door to the outside edge of the stop on the door frame. It is not sufficient just to measure the inside width of the door frame. Other factors, including location of door stops other than on the door frame, and the installation of door closers and exit devices, should be taken into account. The intrusion of a door handle into the space is of lesser importance. It is recognized that there are many types of door frame and door mounts but the overall objective is to maintain a clear width of not less than 800 mm. The diagram depicts a somewhat restrictive scenario, as many doors can open wider than 90°, however, a door smaller than 864 mm would not be wide enough to ensure the minimum clear width of 800 mm that is required.
Figure A-3.8.3.6.(2) Clear doorway width
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 3-269
        stop
Clear width with exit device
Clear width with no exit device
300 mm minimum
600 mm minimum
EG01210A
 exit device
            © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-3.8.3.6.(3) Division B
A-3.8.3.6.(3) Washrooms in Residential Occupancies. This requirement ensures that the doorway to the washroom in a dwelling unit or a hotel or motel suite is at least large enough to accommodate someone using a wheelchair. The Code does not require these washrooms to be barrier-free, in order to avoid a set of prescriptive requirements which could limit design flexibility. It is relatively simple to make washrooms accessible through careful planning and positioning of fixtures and this can be achieved in an area not much larger than that of conventional washrooms.
Figure A-3.8.3.6.(3) Residential washrooms
A-3.8.3.6.(4) Lever Handles. Lever handles are usable by most persons with limited hand mobility and will meet the intent of this requirement. Lever handles with an end return towards the door are less prone to catch the clothing of someone passing through the doorway.
A-3.8.3.6.(6) and (7) Doors with Power Operators. Doors equipped with a power operator actuated by a pressure plate identified with the international symbol for accessibility or, where security is required, by a key, card or radio transmitter, and that can otherwise be opened manually, meet the intent of the requirement. The location of these actuating devices should ensure that a wheelchair will not interfere with the operation of the door once it is actuated. Swinging doors equipped with power operators must not open into pedestrian traffic. The power door operator must prevent the door from closing when a person is in the swing area. Power operators conforming to ANSI/BHMA A156.10, “Power Operated Pedestrian Doors,” include a device for stopping the door from closing to ensure the safety of users and reduce the risk of injury.
A-3.8.3.6.(9) Air Pressure Differences. Differences in air pressure on opposite sides of a door may be due to the operation of mechanical systems such as those associated with smoke control. So-called “stack action” in buildings in winter can also cause differential pressures due to the buoyancy of warm air. Stack action is usually most noticeable between stairwells and the remainder of the building, and at the entrances to buildings; the taller the building, the greater the effect. Doors with automatic closers have to operate with sufficient opening force to allow the return action to overcome the differential pressure.
A-3.8.3.6.(10) Delayed Action on Door Closers. In some circumstances, closers with a delay feature which keeps the door open for several seconds before it begins to close might be desirable. However, closers with this feature have limited back-check, a feature of a normal door closer where resistance to opening increases as the door reaches the full arc of swing. Doors equipped with a delayed action closer are therefore more susceptible to damage should the door be opened with too much force or should someone try to force
it closed, thinking the closer has failed to operate. Delayed action closers are not recommended for such occupancies as schools.
A-3.8.3.6.(11) Clearance at Doorways. Sufficient clearance must be provided on the latch side of doors for a user to operate the door-opening mechanism and open the door without interference from the wheelchair. This is particularly important for a door swinging towards the approach side. See Figure A-3.8.3.6.(11).
3-270 Division B Amended Page National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
               GC00051A
  © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B A-3.8.3.9.(1)
Figure A-3.8.3.6.(11) Doorway clearance
A-3.8.3.7.(1) Design of Lifts for Persons with Physical Disabilities. The reference to CSA B355, “Lifts for Persons with Physical Disabilities,” implies conformance with all requirements in that standard, including restrictions on other services in these areas and detailed design criteria.
It should be noted that that standard limits the travel of a vertical platform. The travel is smaller for a closed sheath platform. According to the 2009 edition of the standard, some devices have a maximum permitted travel not more than 2 500 mm.
A-3.8.3.9.(1) Accessibility Signs. The International Symbol of Access shown in Figure A-3.8.3.9.(1)-A indicates to persons with physical disabilities that they will have reasonable freedom of movement within a building so signed. The symbol is usually white on a blue background; where these colours do not stand out, the sign can be set on a white background. An arrow can be added to indicate direction or the location of
an accessible space or facility.
Figure A-3.8.3.9.(1)-A
Signs indicating accessible facilities
The International Symbol of Access for Hearing Loss shown in Figure A-3.8.3.9.(1)-B, which indicates accessibility for persons with hearing loss, should be used to indicate the availability of variable volume controls on telephones, assistive listening systems, and text telephones (TT). These latter devices may also be referred to as teletypewriters (TTY) or telecommunications devices for the deaf (TDD).
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 3-271
          600 mm
     300 mm
GG00052A
              GG00049B
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-3.8.3.9.(2) Division B
Figure A-3.8.3.9.(1)-B
Signs for assistive listening facilities
A-3.8.3.9.(2) Sign for Barrier-Free Parking. Sign P-150-5 is shown in section 29 of the Regulation respecting road signs (chapter C-24.2, r. 41).
Figure A-3.8.3.9.(2)
Sign for barrier-free parking
A-3.8.3.11.(1)(c)(v) Water-closet Stalls. Doors to water-closet stalls for persons with physical disabilities should swing outward, preferably against a side wall.
3-272 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
       GG00050A
       P GG00170A
  © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B A-3.8.3.11.(1)(c)(vi)
Figure A-3.8.3.11.(1)(c)(v) Water-closet stalls
A-3.8.3.11.(1)(c)(vi) Door Pulls. The door pull should consist of a D-shaped handle mounted horizontally. The centre lines are the lines drawn through the long axis and the short axis of the handle. The midpoint of the handle must be located horizontally at 200 to 300 mm from the hinged side of the door and vertically at 800 to 1 000 mm above the finished floor surface.
Figure A-3.8.3.11.(1)(c)(vi)-A Door pull location
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 3-273
   door to washroom
   wall-mounted fixture
stall
  1.5 m
1.5 m
clear floor space
  stall
 stall
   EG01214B
           200 to 300 mm
800 to
1000 mm
     EG01215C
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-3.8.3.11.(1)(e)(ii) Division B
Figure A-3.8.3.11.(1)(c)(vi)-B Door pull details
A-3.8.3.11.(1)(e)(ii) Additional Grab Bars. It is the designer’s prerogative to exceed the minimum requirements found in the NBC and specify the installation of additional grab bars in other locations. These additional grab bars may be of different configurations and can be installed in other orientations.
A-3.8.3.12. Universal Washrooms. Unobstructed areas in front of the lavatory, in front of the water closet and on one side of the water closet are necessary for maneuverability of a wheelchair. Although outward swinging doors are preferable for accessibility, inward swinging doors are also permitted. Figures A-3.8.3.12.-A and A-3.8.3.12.-B show design options that meet the intent of Article 3.8.3.12.
Figure A-3.8.3.12.-A
Universal washroom with outward swinging door
3-274 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
 Midpoint
Min. 140 mm
  EG01216A
             1500
GG00054B
  © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B A-3.8.3.15.(1)(d)
Figure A-3.8.3.12.-B
Universal washroom with inward swinging door
A-3.8.3.13.(1) Water Closets. Wall- or floor-mounted water closets with recessed bases are preferable because they provide the least amount of obstruction.
A-3.8.3.15.(1)(d) Clearances Beneath a Lavatory.
Figure A-3.8.3.15.(1)(d) Clearances beneath a lavatory
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 3-275
 1500
GG00055B
        230 mm
735 mm
685 mm
 200 mm
  280 mm
   430 mm
GG00053B
   © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-3.8.3.15.(1)(e) Division B
A-3.8.3.15.(1)(e) Pipe Protection. The pipes referred to in Clause 3.8.3.15.(1)(e) include both supply and waste pipes. The hazard can be prevented by insulating the pipes, by locating the pipes in enclosures, or avoided by limiting the temperature of the hot water to a maximum of 45°C.
A-3.8.3.15.(1)(f) Soap Dispenser Location. The location of accessories, such as soap dispensers and faucets, serving barrier-free lavatories should be established while taking into consideration that their controls must be usable by and within the direct reach of a person in a seated position directly in front of the accessible lavatory.
A-3.8.3.16.(1)(b) Clear Space at Entrances to Showers. The clear space at the entrance to a shower may be encroached upon by fixtures such as a wall hung sink which does not interfere with the leg rests of the wheelchair. However, this sink could restrict movement for persons who need to make a lateral transfer if it were installed at the seat end of the shower.
Figure A-3.8.3.16.(1)(b) Shower design
A-3.8.3.16.(1)(f) Grab Bars. One L-shaped grab bar is required to be installed on the wall next to the seat. A grab bar behind the seat would prevent the user from leaning back against the wall, while one located on the wall opposite the seat cannot be reached from the seated position. The seat itself may be used in conjunction with the bar for transfer. If design flexibility is required, fold away grab bars can be used as an alternative.
A-3.8.3.18. Assistive Listening Systems. Wireless sound transmission systems, including FM, infrared or magnetic induction loop systems, improve sound reception for persons with hearing disabilities by providing amplification which can be adjusted by each user while blocking out unwanted background noise. These systems transmit a signal that is picked up by a special receiver available for use by a person with a hearing disability, whether or not a hearing aid is used. Neither system interferes with the listening enjoyment of others.
The transmitter can be jacked into an existing P.A. system amplifier or used independently with microphones. The induction loop system requires users to sit in the area circumscribed by the loop; though installation of the loop is relatively simple, the installer should be knowledgeable about these systems if proper functioning is to be achieved. FM or infrared systems can be designed to broadcast signals which cover the entire room and thus do not restrict seating to any one area. Figures A-3.8.3.18.-A and A-3.8.3.18.-B show the general configuration of FM and infrared systems. Although portable systems (FM in particular) are available, these are best suited to small audiences. Generally, the systems installed in church halls, auditoria, theatres and similar places of assembly are not easily portable, as they are installed in a fixed location by a sound technician and form an integral part of the P.A. system of the room or building.
Hard-wired systems (where a jack is provided at a particular seat) will not meet this requirement unless adequate provisions are made to accommodate persons with hearing aids. In choosing the most appropriate system, a number of factors must be taken into account including cost, installation and maintenance, suitability to the audience, ease of operation and the need for privacy. Information on designers and suppliers of these systems may be obtained from the Canadian Hearing Society.
3-276 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
   same width as shower
Sink can infringe on clear space but would make lateral transfer difficult if seat were mounted on same side.
EG01217B
900 mm
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022
 Division B A-3.8.4.2.(1)(a)
Figure A-3.8.3.18.-A
FM sound transmission system
Figure A-3.8.3.18.-B
Infrared sound transmission system
A-3.8.3.20. Telephone Shelves or Counters. Built-in shelves or counters for public telephones must be designed to accommodate persons using text telephones (TT). These devices may also be referred to as teletypewriters (TTY) or telecommunication devices for the deaf (TDD). These devices require a level surface at least 305 mm deep by 250 mm wide with no obstruction above that space within 250 mm. If a wall-hung telephone or other obstruction extends to less than 250 mm from the shelf or counter, an equivalent clear space must be provided on either side of each telephone. At least one telephone should be equipped with a volume control on a receiver that generates a magnetic field compatible with the T-switch of a hearing aid. The lower portion of the shelf or counter is intended for persons using a wheelchair; therefore all parts of the operating mechanism of the telephone above this portion should be within reach of a wheelchair user.
A-3.8.4.2.(1)(a) Minimally Accessible Dwelling Unit. In a minimally accessible dwelling unit, if the washroom is inside another space (washroom inside a bedroom) and no other washroom is accessible in the dwelling unit, the barrier-free path of travel required must extend inside the bedroom or another space to reach the washroom even if no accessibility requirement is applicable to that room.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 3-277
   Microphone, Tape, T.V., Film, etc.
Speakers
FM Receiver EG01212A
   FM Broadcast Normal Sound System System
 02
   Amplifier
     FM Transmitter
    Microphone, Tape, T.V., Film, etc.
Infrared Radiator (One or more)
Infrared Light Waves
Infrared Receiver
Speakers
EG01213A
   Infrared Normal Sound System System
 02
   Amplifier
    Infrared Control Transmitter
      © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-3.8.4.3. Division B
A-3.8.4.3. Doorways and Doors. Clear floor surfaces on each side of the door are necessary to allow persons in wheelchairs to approach the door on the latch side, open the door and enter the room while minimizing the number of manoeuvres. The width of the clear floor surfaces on each side of the door is different depending on which side the door opens. Where the door swings toward the approach side, a dimension perpendicular to the closed door not less than 1 200 mm is required. The requirements in Article 3.8.3.6. apply to the door at the entrance to the dwelling unit. However, the requirements in Sentence 3.8.4.3.(2) do not apply.
Figure A-3.8.4.3.-A
Clear floor surfaces – Door rotating on a vertical axis
Figure A-3.8.4.3.-B
Clear floor surfaces – Sliding door
A-3.8.4.5.(4) Washroom. The installation of a wood nailing element of 1 000 mm in width centred on the water closet is permitted where there is no wall adjacent to the water closet at a distance not more than 480 mm from the centre of the wall, allowing the installation of a lateral wood nailing element over a length not less than 1 250 mm. A wood nailing element not less than 1 000 mm wide allows the installation of retractable grab bars on both sides of the water closet.
3-278 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
       1 200 mm min. 1 050 mm min.
 300 mm
600 mm
EG02846A
               50 mm
540 mm min.
Side approach
Front approach
EG02847A
     1 200 mm min. 1 050 mm min.
  © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

  Division B A-3.8.5.5.(1)
Figure A-3.8.4.5.(4)
Wood nailing element for the installation of grab bars adjacent to the water closet
A-3.8.5.2.(1)(a) Adaptable Dwelling Unit. In an adaptable dwelling unit, the requirements concerning the extension of the barrier-free path of travel of the washroom as stated in Note A-3.8.4.2.(1)(a) apply to the bathroom.
A-3.8.5.5.(1) Bathroom. The lateral transfer of a person in a wheelchair to the seat of the water closet requires a clear width not less than 900 mm adjacent to the water closet and a length not less than 1 500 mm from the rear wall of the water closet. The requirement related to that surface for an adaptable bathroom allows the encroachment of a vanity or furniture for dismantling work, to meet the potential need of a person with one or more disabilities occupying the dwelling unit. However, encroachment of that space by bathroom equipment such as the shower or the bathtub is not permissible.
Figure A-3.8.5.5.(1)
Lateral transfer surface adjacent to the water closet
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 3-279
   460 to 480 mm
400 mm
500 mm
500 mm
850 mm min.
400 mm
EG02848A
                       1 250 mm min.
      1100 mm min. 1400 mm min. 460 mm
      500 500
mm mm 460 mm min. 500 mm
             500 mm
          GG00551A
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-3.8.5.5.(2) Division B
A-3.8.5.5.(2) Bathroom. To allow persons in wheelchairs front access to the lavatory, the clear height under the trap must be not less than 230 mm. In addition, to allow those persons to use the lavatory, the lavatory will have to be lowered to a height not more than 865 mm. For that purpose, the distance measured from the floor to the bottom of the trap must be not more than 300 mm.
In an adaptable dwelling unit, the edge of the lavatory need not be installed at a height not more than 865 mm in relation to the floor or to allow front access to the lavatory of the bathroom. However, an appropriate installation of the plumbing is required to allow future adaptation.
Figure A-3.8.5.5.(2)
Indications for the lavatory plumbing
A-3.8.5.7.(1) Manoeuvring Area in the Kitchen. A manoeuvring area not less than 1 500 mm in diameter is required in the kitchen in front of the sink and the range, which does not require plumbing or electrical work for the purpose of moving the sink or the range to allow access to persons in wheelchairs. The travel of the appliance doors may encroach on the manoeuvring area.
A cooktop and a built-in oven may replace the range provided the 1 500-mm manoeuvring area allows access to both.
A-3.8.5.7.(2) and (3) Kitchen Sink Plumbing. To allow front access to the sink by a person in a wheelchair and a sink height not more than 865 mm, the height measured from the floor to the bottom of the sink trap must be 230 mm.
In the case of a sink installed in a kitchen island, the longitudinal dimension to give persons in wheelchairs front access to the kitchen sink may be measured from the front edge of the counter of the island containing the sink and must be not less than 280 mm.
In an adaptable dwelling unit, counters need not be installed at not more than 865 mm and kitchen furniture is allowed under the sink. However, an appropriate installation of the plumbing is required to allow future adaptation.
3-280 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
          230 to 300 mm
 330 mm max.
EG02852A
  © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B A-3.9.2.1.(1)
Figure A-3.8.5.7.(2) and (3) Indications for kitchen sink plumbing
A-3.9.2.1.(1) Building Area of Self-service Storage Buildings. Sentence 3.9.2.1.(1) permits a group of self-service storage buildings to be treated as a single building for determining the construction requirements and number of streets that the group faces under Subsection 3.2.2. This can often result in more stringent construction criteria for the individual buildings than would be required if their construction requirements were determined based on each building’s individual area.
Figure A-3.9.2.1.(1)
Building area of self-service storage buildings
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 3-281
          230 mm
280 mm min.
  330 mm max.
GG00553A
       Group 1 Group 2
     Building I
 Building II
 Building III
      Building IV
 Building V
 Building VI
 Group 1 building area = Area of I + Area of II + Area of III Group 2 building area = Area of IV + Area of V + Area of VI
EG01388A
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-3.9.2.2. Division B
A-3.9.2.2. Spatial Separation Between Self-service Storage Buildings. Where a group of self-service storage buildings is treated as a single building as permitted in Sentence 3.9.2.1.(1), buildings within the same group are exempted from the spatial separation requirements in Subsection 3.2.3. as long as a minimum distance of 6 m is provided between each of them. If the owner wants less distance between the buildings, the requirements of Subsection 3.2.3. must be applied.
In addition, where there are multiple groups of buildings on a single property, the minimum distance required to separate one group from another group is the greater of 9 m and the limiting distance calculated in Subsection 3.2.3.
Except as provided in Article 3.9.2.2., Subsection 3.2.3. applies to each building within a group.
Figure A-3.9.2.2.
Spatial separation between self-service storage buildings
A-3.9.3.1.(1) Storage of Flammable and Combustible Liquids. Refer to Subsection 4.2.12. of Division B of the NFC for requirements regarding the storage of flammable and combustible liquids in individual self-service storage units.
A-3.9.3.2.(1) Sanitary Facilities. Properties with self-service storage buildings on them may have multiple buildings or one large building. Due to the low occupant load of these types of buildings, only one building on the property is required to have a pair of washrooms.
3-282 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
    Group 1 Group 2
yy
      Building IV
 Building V
 Building VI
  Building I
 Building II
 Building III
   yxy
x = 9 m, or the distance calculated in Subsection 3.2.3., whichever is greater
y ≥ 6 m, or Subsection 3.2.3. applies
EG01389A
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
Part 4
Structural Design
4.1. Structural Loads and Procedures
4.1.1. General .............................................. 4-1
4.1.2. Specified Loads and Effects ........... 4-2
4.1.3. Limit States Design .......................... 4-3
4.1.4. Dead Loads ....................................... 4-7
4.1.5. Live Loads Due to Use and
Occupancy ........................................ 4-7
4.1.6. Loads Due to Snow and Rain ........ 4-13
4.1.7. Wind Load ....................................... 4-27
4.1.8. Earthquake Load and Effects ........ 4-43
4.2. Foundations
4.2.1. General ............................................ 4-72
4.2.2. Subsurface Investigations,
Drawings and Reviews .................. 4-72
4.2.3. Materials Used in Foundations ..... 4-72
4.2.4. Design Requirements .................... 4-74
4.2.5. Excavations .................................... 4-75
4.2.6. Shallow Foundations ..................... 4-76
4.2.7. Deep Foundations .......................... 4-77
4.2.8. Special Foundations ...................... 4-78
4.3. Design Requirements for Structural Materials
4.3.1. Wood ............................................... 4-78
4.3.2. Plain and Reinforced Masonry ...... 4-78
4.3.3. Plain, Reinforced and
Pre-stressed Concrete ................... 4-78
4.3.4. Steel ................................................. 4-79
4.3.5. Aluminum ........................................ 4-79
4.3.6. Glass ............................................... 4-79
4.4. Design Requirements for Special Structures
4.4.1. Air-Supported Structures .............. 4-79
4.4.2. Parking Structures ......................... 4-79
4.5. Objectives and Functional Statements
4.5.1. Objectives and Functional
Statements ...................................... 4-80
Notes to Part 4 ................ 4-91
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1

 Division B
Part 4
Structural Design
Section 4.1. Structural Loads and Procedures
4.1.1. 4.1.1.1.
4.1.1.2.
4.1.1.3.
General Scope
1) The scope of this Part shall be as described in Subsection 1.3.3. of Division A. Definitions
1) Words that appear in italics in this Part are defined in Article 1.4.1.2. of Division A.
Design Requirements
1) Buildings and their structural members and connections, including formwork and falsework, shall be designed to have sufficient structural capacity and structural integrity to safely and effectively resist all loads, effects of loads and influences that may reasonably be expected, having regard to the expected service life of buildings, and shall in any case satisfy the requirements of this Section. (See Note A-4.1.1.3.(1).)
2) Buildings and their structural members shall be designed for serviceability, in accordance with Articles 4.1.3.4., 4.1.3.5. and 4.1.3.6. (See Note A-4.1.1.3.(2).)
3) All permanent and temporary structural members, including the formwork and falsework of a building, shall be protected against loads exceeding the specified loads during the construction period except when, as verified by analysis or test, temporary overloading of a structural member would result in no impairment of that member or any other member.
4) Falsework, scaffolding, and formwork shall be designed in conformance with
a) CSA S269.1, “Falsework for Construction Purposes,”
b) CSA S269.2, “Access Scaffolding for Construction Purposes,” or
c) CAN/CSA-S269.3-M, “Concrete Formwork.”
5) Precautions shall be taken during all phases of construction to ensure that the building is not damaged or distorted due to loads applied during construction.
Structural Drawings and Related Documents
1) Structural drawings and related documents shall conform to the appropriate
requirements of Section 2.2. of Division C. (See Subsection 2.2.4. of Division C.)
Design Basis
1) Except as provided in Sentence (2), buildings and their structural members shall
be designed in conformance with the procedures and practices provided in this Part.
2) Provided the design is carried out by a person especially qualified in the specific methods applied and provided the design demonstrates a level of safety and performance in accordance with the requirements of Part 4, buildings and their
4.1.1.4.
4.1.1.5.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 4-1
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 4.1.1.6.
Division B
4.1.1.6.
4.1.2. 4.1.2.1.
structural components falling within the scope of Part 4 that are not amenable to analysis using a generally established theory may be designed by
a) evaluation of a full-scale structure or a prototype by a loading test, or
b) studies of model analogues.
(See Note A-4.1.1.5.(2).)
Certification
1) All concrete shall be manufactured and delivered in accordance with the requirements in the NBC by a plant that holds a certificate of conformity issued by the BNQ in accordance with certification protocol NQ 2621-905, “Ready-Mix Concrete – Certification Program.”
Specified Loads and Effects Loads and Effects
(See Note A-4.1.2.1.)
1) Except as provided in Article 4.1.2.2., the following categories of loads, specified loads and effects shall be taken into consideration in the design of a building and its structural members and connections:
4-2 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
D ................... E ...................
H ................... L ...................
LXC ................ C ................... Cd ................. C7 .................. P ................... S ...................
T ................... W ..................
dead load – a permanent load due to the weight of building components, as specified in Subsection 4.1.4.,
earthquake load and effects – a rare load due to an earthquake, as specified in Subsection 4.1.8.,
a permanent load due to lateral earth pressure, including groundwater,
live load – a variable load due to intended use and occupancy (including loads due to cranes and the pressure of liquids in containers), as specified in Subsection 4.1.5.,
live load exclusive of crane loads,
live load due to cranes including self weight,
self weight of all cranes positioned for maximum effects, crane bumper impact load,
permanent effects caused by pre-stress,
variable load due to snow, including ice and associated rain, as specified in Article 4.1.6.2., or due to rain, as specified in Article 4.1.6.4.,
effects due to contraction, expansion, or deflection caused by temperature changes, shrinkage, moisture changes, creep, ground settlement, or a combination thereof (see Note A-4.1.2.1.(1)), and
wind load – a variable load due to wind, as specified in Subsection 4.1.7.,
where
a) load means the imposed deformations (i.e. deflections, displacements or
motions that induce deformations and forces in the structure), forces and
pressures applied to the building structure,
b) permanent load is a load that changes very little once it has been applied to
the structure, except during repair,
c) variable load is a load that frequently changes in magnitude, direction or
location, and
d) rare load is a load that occurs infrequently and for a short time only.
2) Minimum specified values of the loads described in Sentence (1), as set forth in Subsections 4.1.4. to 4.1.8., shall be increased to account for dynamic effects where applicable.
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 4.1.3.1.
3) For the purpose of determining specified loads S, W or E in Subsections 4.1.6., 4.1.7. and 4.1.8., buildings shall be assigned an Importance Category based on intended use and occupancy, in accordance with Table 4.1.2.1. (See Note A-4.1.2.1.(3).)
Table 4.1.2.1. Importance Categories for Buildings Forming Part of Sentence 4.1.2.1.(3)
Use and Occupancy
All buildings except those listed in Importance Categories Low, High and Post-disaster
Importance Category
Normal
Notes to Table 4.1.2.1.:
(1) See Note A-Table 4.1.2.1.
(2) See Note A-1.4.1.2.(1), Post-disaster Buildings, in Division A.
4.1.2.2.
4.1.3. 4.1.3.1.
Loads Not Listed
1) Where a building or structural member can be expected to be subjected to loads, forces or other effects not listed in Article 4.1.2.1., such effects shall be taken into account in the design based on the most appropriate information available.
Limit States Design
(See Note A-4.1.3.)
Definitions
1) In this Subsection, the term
a) limit states means those conditions of a building structure that result in the
building ceasing to fulfill the function for which it was designed (those limit states concerning safety are called ultimate limit states (ULS) and include exceeding the load-carrying capacity, overturning, sliding and fracture; those limit states that restrict the intended use and occupancy of the building are called serviceability limit states (SLS) and include deflection, vibration, permanent deformation and local structural damage such as cracking; and those limit states that represent failure under repeated loading are called fatigue limit states),
b) specified loads (C, D, E, H, L, P, S, T and W) means those loads defined in Article 4.1.2.1.,
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division B 4-3
  Buildings that represent a low direct or indirect hazard to human life in the event of failure, including:
• lowhuman-occupancybuildings,whereitcanbeshownthatcollapseisnotlikelytocauseinjuryor
other serious consequences • minorstoragebuildings
  Low(1)
   Buildings that are likely to be used as post-disaster shelters, including buildings whose primary use is: • asanelementary,middleorsecondaryschool
• asacommunitycentre
Manufacturing and storage facilities containing toxic, explosive or other hazardous substances in sufficient quantities to be dangerous to the public if released(1)
  High
 Post-disaster buildings are buildings that are essential to the provision of services in the event of a disaster, and include:
• hospitals,emergencytreatmentfacilitiesandbloodbanks
• telephoneexchanges
• powergeneratingstationsandelectricalsubstations
• controlcentresforair,landandmarinetransportation
• publicwatertreatmentandstoragefacilities,andpumpingstations
• sewagetreatmentfacilitiesandbuildingshavingcriticalnationaldefencefunctions
• buildingsofthefollowingtypes,unlessexemptedfromthisdesignationbytheauthorityhaving
jurisdiction:(2)
• emergencyresponsefacilities
• fire,rescueandpolicestations,andhousingforvehicles,aircraftorboatsusedforsuchpurposes • communicationsfacilities,includingradioandtelevisionstations
  Post-disaster
   © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 4.1.3.2.
Division B
4.1.3.2.
c) principal load means the specified variable load or rare load that dominates in a given load combination,
d) companion load means a specified variable load that accompanies the principal load in a given load combination,
e) service load means a specified load used for the evaluation of a serviceability limit state,
f) principal-load factor means a factor applied to the principal load in a load combination to account for the variability of the load and load pattern and the analysis of its effects,
g) companion-load factor means a factor that, when applied to a companion load in the load combination, gives the probable magnitude of a companion load acting simultaneously with the factored principal load,
h) importance factor, I, means a factor applied in Subsections 4.1.6., 4.1.7.
and 4.1.8. to obtain the specified load and take into account the consequences of failure as related to the limit state and the use and occupancy of the building,
i) factored load means the product of a specified load and its principal-load factor or companion-load factor,
j) effects refers to forces, moments, deformations or vibrations that occur in the structure,
k) nominal resistance, R, of a member, connection or structure, is based on the geometry and on the specified properties of the structural materials,
l) resistance factor, φ, means a factor applied to a specified material property or to the resistance of a member, connection or structure, and that, for
the limit state under consideration, takes into account the variability of dimensions and material properties, workmanship, type of failure and uncertainty in the prediction of resistance, and
m) factored resistance, φR, means the product of nominal resistance and the applicable resistance factor.
Strength and Stability
1) A building and its structural components shall be designed to have sufficient strength and stability so that the factored resistance, φR, is greater than or equal to the effect of factored loads, which shall be determined in accordance with Sentence (2).
2) Except as provided in Sentence (3), the effect of factored loads for a building or structural component shall be determined in accordance with the requirements of this Article and the following load combination cases, the applicable combination being that which results in the most critical effect:
a) for load cases without crane loads, the load combinations listed in Table 4.1.3.2.-A, and
b) for load cases with crane loads, the load combinations listed in Table 4.1.3.2.-B.
(See Note A-4.1.3.2.(2).)
3) Other load combinations that must also be considered are the principal loads acting with the companion loads taken as zero.
4) Where the effects due to lateral earth pressure, H, restraint effects from pre-stress, P, and imposed deformation, T, affect the structural safety, they shall be taken into account in the calculations, with load factors of 1.5, 1.0 and 1.25 assigned to H, P and T respectively. (See Note A-4.1.3.2.(4).)
5) Except as provided in Sentence 4.1.8.16.(2), the counteracting factored dead load—0.9D in load combination cases 2, 3 and 4 and 1.0D in load combination case
5 in Table 4.1.3.2.-A, and 0.9D in load combination cases 1 to 5 and 1.0D in load combination case 6 in Table 4.1.3.2.-B—shall be used when the dead load acts to resist overturning, uplift, sliding, failure due to stress reversal, and to determine anchorage requirements and the factored resistance of members. (See Note A-4.1.3.2.(5).)
6) The principal-load factor 1.5 for live loads L in Table 4.1.3.2.-A and LXC in Table 4.1.3.2.-B may be reduced to 1.25 for liquids in tanks.
4-4 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 4.1.3.2.
7) The companion-load factor for live loads L in Table 4.1.3.2.-A and LXC in Table 4.1.3.2.-B shall be increased by 0.5 for storage areas, and equipment areas and service rooms referred to in Table 4.1.5.3.
Case
Load Combination(1)
Table 4.1.3.2.-A
Load Combinations Without Crane Loads for Ultimate Limit States Forming Part of Sentences 4.1.3.2.(2) and (5) to (10)
1 1.4D(2)
2 (1.25D(3) or 0.9D(4)) + 1.5L(5)
3 (1.25D(3) or 0.9D(4)) + 1.5S
4 (1.25D(3) or 0.9D(4) ) + 1.4W
5 1.0D(4) + 1.0E(8)
Notes to Table 4.1.3.2.-A:
(1) See Sentences 4.1.3.2.(2), (3) and (4).
(2) See Sentence 4.1.3.2.(9).
(3) See Sentence 4.1.3.2.(8).
(4) See Sentence 4.1.3.2.(5).
(5) See Sentence 4.1.3.2.(6).
(6) See Article 4.1.5.5.
(7) See Sentence 4.1.3.2.(7).
(8) See Sentence 4.1.3.2.(10).
Case
—
1.0S(6) or 0.4W 1.0L(6)(7) or 0.4W 0.5L(7) or 0.5S 0.5L(6)(7) + 0.25S(6)
Principal Loads
Companion Loads
Table 4.1.3.2.-B
Load Combinations With Crane Loads for Ultimate Limit States Forming Part of Sentences 4.1.3.2.(2), (5) to (8), and (10)
1 (1.25D(2) or 0.9D(3)) + (1.5C + 1.0LXC)
2 (1.25D(2) or 0.9D(3)) + (1.5LXC(5) + 1.0C)
3 (1.25D(2) or 0.9D(3)) + 1.5S
4 (1.25D(2) or 0.9D(3)) + 1.4W
5 (1.25D(2) or 0.9D(3)) + C7
6 1.0D(3) + 1.0E(8)
Notes to Table 4.1.3.2.-B:
(1) See Sentences 4.1.3.2.(2), (3) and (4).
(2) See Sentence 4.1.3.2.(8).
(3) See Sentence 4.1.3.2.(5).
(4) See Article 4.1.5.5.
(5) See Sentence 4.1.3.2.(6).
(6) See Sentence 4.1.3.2.(7).
(7) Side thrust due to cranes need not be combined with full wind load.
(8) See Sentence 4.1.3.2.(10).
Principal Loads
Companion Loads
1.0S(4) or 0.4W 1.0S(4) or 0.4W
1.0C + 1.0LXC(4)(6)) (1.0C(7) + 0.5LXC(4)(6)) —
1.0Cd + 0.5LXC(4)(6)+ 0.25S(4)
8) Except as provided in Sentence (9), the load factor 1.25 for dead load, D, for soil, superimposed earth, plants and trees given in Tables 4.1.3.2.-A and 4.1.3.2.-B shall be increased to 1.5, except that when the soil depth exceeds 1.2 m, the factor may be reduced to 1 + 0.6/hs but not less than 1.25, where hs is the depth of soil in metres supported by the structure.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 4-5
Load Combination(1)
        © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 4.1.3.3.
Division B
4.1.3.3.
4.1.3.4.
4.1.3.5.
9) A principal-load factor of 1.5 shall be applied to the weight of saturated soil used in load combination case 1 of Table 4.1.3.2.-A.
10) Earthquake load, E, in load combination cases 5 of Table 4.1.3.2.-A and 6 of Table 4.1.3.2.-B includes horizontal earth pressure due to earthquake determined in accordance with Sentence 4.1.8.16.(7).
11) Provision shall be made to ensure adequate stability of the structure as a whole and adequate lateral, torsional and local stability of all structural parts.
12) Sway effects produced by vertical loads acting on the structure in its displaced configuration shall be taken into account in the design of buildings and their structural members.
Fatigue
1) A building and its structural components, including connections, shall be checked for fatigue failure under the effect of cyclical loads, as required in the standards listed in Section 4.3. (See Note A-4.1.3.3.(1).)
2) Where vibration effects, such as resonance and fatigue resulting from machinery and equipment, are likely to be significant, a dynamic analysis shall be carried out. (See Note A-4.1.3.3.(2).)
Serviceability
1) A building and its structural components shall be checked for serviceability limit states as defined in Clause 4.1.3.1.(1)(a) under the effect of service loads for serviceability criteria specified or recommended in Articles 4.1.3.5. and 4.1.3.6. and in the standards listed in Section 4.3. (See Note A-4.1.3.4.(1).)
Deflection
1) In proportioning structural members to limit serviceability problems resulting from deflections, consideration shall be given to
a) the intended use of the building or member,
b) limiting damage to non-structural members made of materials whose
physical properties are known at the time of design,
c) limiting damage to the structure itself, and
d) creep, shrinkage, temperature changes and pre-stress.
(See Note A-4.1.3.5.(1).)
2) The lateral deflection of buildings due to service wind and gravity loads shall be checked to ensure that structural elements and non-structural elements whose nature is known at the time the structural design is carried out will not be damaged.
3) Except as provided in Sentence (4), the total drift per storey under service wind and gravity loads shall not exceed 1/500 of the storey height unless other drift limits are specified in the design standards referenced in Section 4.3. (See Note A-4.1.3.5.(3).)
4) The deflection limits required in Sentence (3) do not apply to industrial buildings or sheds if experience has proven that greater movement will have no significant adverse effects on the strength and function of the building.
5) The building structure shall be designed for lateral deflection due to E, in accordance with Article 4.1.8.13.
Vibration
1) Floor systems susceptible to vibration shall be designed so that vibrations will have no significant adverse effects on the intended occupancy of the building. (See Note A-4.1.3.6.(1).)
2) Where the fundamental vibration frequency of a structural system supporting an assembly occupancy used for rhythmic activities, such as dancing, concerts, jumping exercises or gymnastics, is less than 6 Hz, the effects of resonance shall be investigated by means of a dynamic analysis. (See Note A-4.1.3.6.(2).)
4.1.3.6.
4-6 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 4.1.5.3.
4.1.4. 4.1.4.1.
3) A building susceptible to lateral vibration under wind load shall be designed in accordance with Article 4.1.7.1. so that the vibrations will have no significant adverse effects on the intended use and occupancy of the building. (See Note A-4.1.3.6.(3).)
Dead Loads Dead Loads
1) The specified dead load for a structural member consists of
a) the weight of the member itself,
b) the weight of all materials of construction incorporated into the building to
be supported permanently by the member, c) the weight of partitions,
d) the weight of permanent equipment, and
e) the vertical load due to earth, plants and trees.
2) Except as provided in Sentence (5), in areas of a building where partitions, other than permanent partitions, are shown on the drawings, or where partitions might be added in the future, allowance shall be made for the weight of such partitions.
3) The partition weight allowance referred to in Sentence (2) shall be determined from the actual or anticipated weight of the partitions placed in any probable position, but shall be not less than 1 kPa over the area of floor being considered.
4) Partition loads used in design shall be shown on the drawings as provided in Clause 2.2.4.3.(1)(d) of Division C.
5) In cases where the dead load of the partition is counteractive, the load allowances referred to in Sentences (2) and (3) shall not be included in the design calculations.
6) Except for structures where the dead load of soil is part of the load-resisting system, where the dead load due to soil, superimposed earth, plants and trees is counteractive, it shall not be included in the design calculations. (See Note A-4.1.4.1.(6).)
Live Loads Due to Use and Occupancy Loads Due to Use of Floors and Roofs
1) Except as provided in Sentence (2), the specified live load on an area of floor or roof depends on the intended use and occupancy, and shall not be less than either the uniformly distributed load patterns listed in Article 4.1.5.3., the loads due to the intended use and occupancy, or the concentrated loads listed in Article 4.1.5.9., whichever produces the most critical effect. (See Note A-4.1.5.1.(1).)
2) For buildings in the Low Importance Category as described in Table 4.1.2.1., a factor of 0.8 may be applied to the live load.
Uses Not Stipulated
1) Except as provided in Sentence (2), where the use of an area of floor or roof is not provided for in Article 4.1.5.3., the specified live loads due to the use and occupancy of the area shall be determined from an analysis of the loads resulting from the weight of
a) the probable assembly of persons,
b) the probable accumulation of equipment and furnishings, and
c) the probable storage of materials.
2) For buildings in the Low Importance Category as described in Table 4.1.2.1., a
factor of 0.8 may be applied to the live load. Full and Partial Loading
1) The uniformly distributed live load shall be not less than the value listed in Table 4.1.5.3., which may be reduced as provided in Article 4.1.5.8., applied uniformly over the entire area or on any portions of the area, whichever produces the most critical effects in the members concerned.
4.1.5. 4.1.5.1.
4.1.5.2.
4.1.5.3.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 4-7
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 4.1.5.3.
Division B
Table 4.1.5.3.
Specified Uniformly Distributed Live Loads on an Area of Floor or Roof Forming Part of Sentence 4.1.5.3.(1)
Use of Area of Floor or Roof
Assembly Areas
a) Except for the areas listed under b), c), d) and e), assembly areas with or without fixed seats including
Arenas(1) (areas without fixed seats that have backs) Auditoria
Churches (areas without fixed seats that have backs) Dance floors
Dining areas(2)
Foyers and entrance halls
Grandstands(1) (areas without fixed seats that have backs), reviewing stands and bleachers Gymnasia
Lecture halls(1) (areas without fixed seats that have backs)
Museums
Promenades
Rinks
Stadia(1) (areas without fixed seats that have backs)
Theatres (areas without fixed seats that have backs)
Other areas with similar uses
b) Classrooms and courtrooms with or without fixed seats(1)
c) Portions of assembly areas with fixed seats that have backs for the following uses:
Arenas Grandstands Stadia
d) Portions of assembly areas with fixed seats that have backs for the following uses: Churches
Lecture halls(1)
Theatres
e) Vomitories, exits, lobbies and corridors(1) Attics(1)
Accessible by a stairway in residential occupancies only
Having limited accessibility so that there is no storage of equipment or material Balconies
Exterior
Interior and mezzanines that could be used by an assembly of people as a viewing area(1) Interior and mezzanines other than above
Corridors, lobbies and aisles(1)
Other than those listed below
Not more than 1 200 mm in width and all upper floor corridors of residential areas only of apartments, hotels and motels (that cannot be used by an assembly of people as a viewing area)(1)
Equipment areas and service rooms including Generator rooms
Mechanical equipment exclusive of elevators Machine rooms
Pump rooms
Transformer vaults
Ventilating or air-conditioning equipment
Minimum Specified Load, kPa
4.8
2.4
2.9(1)
2.4
4.8
1.4 0.5
4.8
4.8 (3)
4.8 (1) (3)
3.6(4)
4-8 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
           © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
4.1.5.4.
Exits and fire escapes Factories
Footbridges
Garages for
Table 4.1.5.3. (Continued)
Use of Area of Floor or Roof
Minimum Specified Load, kPa
4.8 6.0(4) 4.8
2.4
6.0 12.0(1) 4.8
7.2 2.9
4.8 2.4 3.6 1.9
3.6
1.9
1.9 1.9 1.9 4.8
1.0(1)(5) 12.0(1)(5)
4.8(4)
2.4 (5)
4.8(4)
Vehicles not exceeding 4 000 kg gross weight
Vehicles exceeding 4 000 kg but not exceeding 9 000 kg gross weight Vehicles exceeding 9 000 kg gross weight
Kitchens (other than residential) Libraries
Stack rooms
Reading and study rooms
Office areas (not including record storage and computer rooms) located in
Basement and the first storey
Floors above the first storey
Operating rooms and laboratories
Patients’ bedrooms
Recreation areas that cannot be used for assembly purposes including
Billiard rooms Bowling alleys Pool rooms
Residential areas (within the scope of Article 1.3.3.2. of Division A)
Sleeping and living quarters in apartments, hotels, motels, boarding schools and colleges
Residential areas (within the scope of Article 1.3.3.3. of Division A) Bedrooms
Other areas
Stairs within dwelling units
Retail and wholesale areas
Roofs
Sidewalks and driveways over areaways and basements Storage areas
Toilet areas
Underground slabs with earth cover Warehouses
Notes to Table 4.1.5.3.:
(1) See Note A-Table 4.1.5.3.
(2) See Article 4.1.5.6.
(3) See Article 4.1.5.4.
(4) See Sentence 4.1.5.1.(1).
(5) See Article 4.1.5.5.
4.1.5.4.
Loads for Occupancy Served
1) The following shall be designed to carry not less than the specified load required for the occupancy they serve, provided they cannot be used by an assembly of people as a viewing area:
a) corridors, lobbies and aisles not more than 1 200 mm wide,
b) all corridors above the first storey of residential areas of apartments, hotels
and motels, and
c) interior balconies and mezzanines.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division B 4-9
                     © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 4.1.5.5.
Division B
4.1.5.5.
Loads on Exterior Areas
(See Note A-4.1.5.5.)
1) Exterior areas accessible to vehicular traffic shall be designed for their intended use, including the weight of firefighting equipment, but not for less than the snow and rain loads prescribed in Subsection 4.1.6.
2) Except as provided in Sentences (3) and (4), roofs shall be designed for either the uniform live loads specified in Table 4.1.5.3., the concentrated live loads listed in Table 4.1.5.9., or the snow and rain loads prescribed in Subsection 4.1.6., whichever produces the most critical effects in the members concerned.
3) Exterior areas accessible to pedestrian traffic, but not vehicular traffic, shall be designed for their intended use, but not for less than the greater of
a) the live load prescribed for assembly areas in Table 4.1.5.3., or
b) the snow and rain loads prescribed in Subsection 4.1.6.
4) Roof parking decks shall be designed for either the uniformly distributed live loads specified in Table 4.1.5.3., the concentrated live loads listed in Table 4.1.5.9., or the roof snow load, whichever produces the most critical effect in the members concerned.
Loads for Dining Areas
1) The minimum specified live load listed in Table 4.1.5.3. for dining areas may
be reduced to 2.4 kPa for areas in buildings that are being converted to dining areas, provided that the floor area does not exceed 100 m2 and the dining area will not be used for other assembly purposes, including dancing.
More Than One Occupancy
1) Where an area of floor or roof is intended for 2 or more occupancies at different times, the value to be used from Table 4.1.5.3. shall be the greatest value for any of the occupancies concerned.
Variation with Tributary Area
(See Note A-4.1.5.8.)
1) An area used for assembly occupancies designed for a live load of less than 4.8 kPa and roofs designed for the minimum loading specified in Table 4.1.5.3. shall have
no reduction for tributary area.
2) Where a structural member supports a tributary area of a floor or a roof, or a combination thereof, that is greater than 80 m2 and either used for assembly occupancies designed for a live load of 4.8 kPa or more, or used for storage, manufacturing, retail stores, garages or as a footbridge, the specified live load due to use and occupancy is the load specified in Article 4.1.5.3. multiplied by
where A is the tributary area in square metres for this type of use and occupancy.
3) Where a structural member supports a tributary area of a floor or a roof, or a combination thereof, that is greater than 20 m2 and used for any use or occupancy other than those indicated in Sentences (1) and (2), the specified live load due to use and occupancy is the load specified in Article 4.1.5.3. multiplied by
where B is the tributary area in square metres for this type of use and occupancy.
4) Where the specified live load for a floor is reduced in accordance with Sentence (2) or (3), the structural drawings shall indicate that a live load reduction factor for tributary area has been applied.
4.1.5.6.
4.1.5.7.
4.1.5.8.
4-10 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 4.1.5.11.
4.1.5.9.
Concentrated Loads
1) The specified live load due to possible concentrations of load resulting from the use of an area of floor or roof shall not be less than that listed in Table 4.1.5.9. applied over the loaded area noted and located so as to cause maximum effects, except that for occupancies not listed in Table 4.1.5.9., the concentrations of load shall be determined in accordance with Article 4.1.5.2.
Table 4.1.5.9.
Specified Concentrated Live Loads on an Area of Floor or Roof Forming Part of Sentence 4.1.5.9.(1)
Roof surfaces
Floors of classrooms
1.3 4.5 9.0 18 36
54(1) 54(1)
Area of Floor or Roof
Minimum Specified Concentrated Load, kN
Loaded Area, mm x mm
200 x 200 750 x 750 750 x 750 120 x 120 120 x 120
250 x 600(1) 250 x 600(1)
Floors of offices, manufacturing buildings, hospital wards and stages
Floors and areas used by vehicles not exceeding 4 000 kg gross weight
Floors and areas used by vehicles exceeding 4 000 kg but not exceeding 9 000 kg gross weight
Floors and areas used by vehicles exceeding 9 000 kg gross weight Driveways and sidewalks over areaways and basements
Notes to Table 4.1.5.9.:
(1) See Note A-Table 4.1.5.9.
4.1.5.10.
4.1.5.11.
Sway Forces in Assembly Occupancies
1) The floor assembly and other structural elements that support fixed seats in any building used for assembly occupancies accommodating large numbers of people at one time, such as grandstands, stadia and theatre balconies, shall be designed to resist a horizontal force equal to not less than 0.3 kN for each metre length of seats acting parallel to each row of seats, and not less than 0.15 kN for each metre length of seats acting at right angles to each row of seats, based on the assumption that these forces are acting independently of each other.
Crane-Supporting Structures and Impact of Machinery and Equipment
(See Note A-4.1.5.11.)
1) The minimum specified load due to equipment, machinery or other objects that may produce impact shall be the sum of the weight of the equipment or machinery and its maximum lifting capacity, multiplied by an appropriate factor listed in
Table 4.1.5.11.
2) Crane-supporting structures shall be designed for the appropriate load combinations listed in Article 4.1.3.2.
3) Crane runway structures shall be designed to resist a horizontal force applied normal to the top of the rails equal to not less than 20% of the sum of the weights of the lifted load and the crane trolley (excluding other parts of the crane).
4) The force described in Sentence (3) shall be equally distributed on each side of the runway and shall be assumed to act in either direction.
5) Crane runway structures shall be designed to resist a horizontal force applied parallel to the top of the rails equal to not less than 10% of the maximum wheel loads of the crane.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 4-11
   © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 4.1.5.12.
Division B
Table 4.1.5.11.
Factors for the Calculation of Impact Loads Forming Part of Sentence 4.1.5.11.(1)
Cause of Impact
Operation of cab or radio-operated cranes
Operation of pendant or hand-operated cranes Operation of elevators
Supports for light machinery, shaft or motor-driven Supports for reciprocating machinery (e.g. compressors) Supports for power-driven units (e.g. piston engines)
Notes to Table 4.1.5.11.:
(1) See ASME A17.1/CSA B44, “Safety Code for Elevators and Escalators.”
Factor
1.25
1.10 (1)
1.20 1.50 1.50
4.1.5.12.
4.1.5.13.
4.1.5.14.
Bleachers
4-12 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
1) Bleachers shall be designed for a uniformly distributed live load of 1.75 kN for each linear metre or for a concentrated load of 2.2 kN distributed over a length of 0.75 m, whichever produces the most critical effect on the supporting members.
2) Bleachers shall be checked by the erector after erection to ensure that all structural members, including bracing specified in the design, have been installed.
3) Telescopic bleachers shall be provided with locking devices to ensure stability while in use.
Helicopter Landing Areas
1) Helicopter landing areas on roofs shall be constructed in conformance with the requirements for heliports contained in TC SOR/96-433, “Canadian Aviation Regulations – Part III.”
Loads on Guards and Handrails
(See Note A-4.1.5.14. and 4.1.5.15.(1).)
1) The minimum specified horizontal load applied outward at the minimum required height of every required guard shall be
a) 3.0 kN/m for open viewing stands without fixed seats and for means of egress in grandstands, stadia, bleachers and arenas,
b) a concentrated load of 1.0 kN applied at any point, so as to produce the most critical effect, for access ways to equipment platforms, contiguous stairs and similar areas where the gathering of many people is improbable, and
c) 0.75 kN/m or a concentrated load of 1.0 kN applied at any point so as to produce the most critical effect, whichever governs for locations other than those described in Clauses (a) and (b).
2) The minimum specified horizontal load applied inward at the minimum required height of every required guard shall be half that specified in Sentence (1).
3) Individual elements within the guard, including solid panels and pickets, shall be designed for a load of 0.5 kN applied outward over an area of 100 mm by 100 mm located at any point in the element or elements so as to produce the most critical effect.
4) The size of the opening between any two adjacent vertical elements within a guard shall not exceed the limits required by Part 3 when each of these elements is subjected to a specified live load of 0.1 kN applied in opposite directions in the in-plane direction of the guard so as to produce the most critical effect.
5) The loads required in Sentence (3) need not be considered to act simultaneously with the loads provided for in Sentences (1), (2) and (6).
    © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 4.1.6.2.
4.1.5.15.
4.1.5.16.
4.1.5.17.
6) The minimum specified load applied vertically at the top of every required guard shall be 1.5 kN/m and need not be considered to act simultaneously with the horizontal load provided for in Sentence (1).
7) Handrails and their supports shall be designed and constructed to withstand the following loads, which need not be considered to act simultaneously:
a) a concentrated load not less than 0.9 kN applied at any point and in any direction for all handrails, and
b) a uniform load not less than 0.7 kN/m applied in any direction to handrails not located within dwelling units.
Loads on Vehicle Guardrails
1) Vehicle guardrails shall be designed for a concentrated load of 22 kN applied horizontally outward at any point 500 mm above the floor surface so as to produce the most critical effect. (See Note A-4.1.5.14. and 4.1.5.15.(1).)
2) The loads required in Sentence (1) need not be considered to act simultaneously with the loads provided for in Article 4.1.5.14.
Loads on Walls Acting As Guards
1) Where the floor elevation on one side of a wall, including a wall around a shaft, is more than 600 mm higher than the elevation of the floor or ground on the other side, the wall shall be designed to resist the appropriate outward lateral design loads prescribed elsewhere in Subsection 4.1.5. or 0.5 kPa acting outward, whichever produces the more critical effect.
Firewalls
(See Note A-4.1.5.17.)
1) Firewalls shall be designed to resist the maximum effect due to
a) the appropriate lateral design loads prescribed elsewhere in this Section, or
b) a factored lateral load of 0.5 kPa under fire conditions, as described in
Sentence (2).
2) Under fire conditions, where the fire-resistance rating of the structure is less than that of the firewall,
a) lateral support shall be assumed to be provided by the structure on one side only, or
b) another structural support system capable of resisting the loads imposed by a fire on either side of the firewall shall be provided.
Loads Due to Snow and Rain
Specified Load Due to Rain or to Snow and Associated Rain
1) The specified load on a roof or any other building surface subject to snow and associated rain shall be the snow load specified in Article 4.1.6.2., or the rain load specified in Article 4.1.6.4., whichever produces the more critical effect.
Specified Snow Load
(See Note A-4.1.6.2.)
1) The specified load, S, due to snow and associated rain accumulation on a roof or any other building surface subject to snow accumulation shall be calculated using the formula
where
Is = importance factor for snow load as provided in Table 4.1.6.2.-A,
Ss = 1-in-50-year ground snow load, in kPa, determined in accordance with Subsection 1.1.3.,
4.1.6. 4.1.6.1.
4.1.6.2.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 4-13
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 4.1.6.2.
Division B
Low
Normal
High Post-disaster
4-14 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Importance Category
2)
a)
b)
Cb = basic roof snow load factor in Sentence (2), Cw = wind exposure factor in Sentences (3) and (4),
Cs = slope factor in Sentences (5), (6) and (7), Ca = accumulation factor in Sentence (8), and
Sr = 1-in-50-year associated rain load, in kPa, determined in accordance with Subsection 1.1.3., but not greater than Ss(C bCwCsCa).
Table 4.1.6.2.-A Importance Factor for Snow Load, IS Forming Part of Sentence 4.1.6.2.(1)
Importance Factor, Is
ULS SLS
0.8 0.9 1 0.9 1.15 0.9 1.25 0.9
The basic roof snow load factor, Cb, shall be determined as follows:
i)
ii)
l =largerplandimensionoftheroof,inm,or
conform to Table 4.1.6.2.-B, using linear interpolation for intermediate values of .
where
lc = characteristic length of the upper or lower roof,
defined as 2w−w2/l, in m,
w =smallerplandimensionoftheroof,inm,and
(See Note A-4.1.6.2.(2).)
3) Except as provided for in Sentence (4), the wind exposure factor, Cw, shall be 1.0.
4) For buildings in the Low and Normal Importance Categories as set out in
Table 4.1.2.1., the wind exposure factor, Cw, given in Sentence (3) may be reduced to 0.75 for rural areas only, or to 0.5 for exposed areas north of the treeline, where
a) the building is exposed on all sides to wind over open terrain as defined in Clause 4.1.7.3.(5)(a), and is expected to remain so during its life,
b) the area of roof under consideration is exposed to the wind on all sides with no significant obstructions on the roof, such as parapet walls, within a distance of at least 10 times the difference between the height of the obstruction and CbCwSs/γ metres, where γ is the specific weight of snow on roofs as specified in Article 4.1.6.13., and
c) the loading does not involve the accumulation of snow due to drifting from adjacent surfaces.
5) Except as provided for in Sentences (6) and (7), the slope factor, Cs, shall be
a) 1.0 where the roof slope, α, is equal to or less than 30°,
b) (70° − α)/40° where α is greater than 30° but not greater than 70°, and
c) 0 where α exceeds 70°.
      © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
4.1.6.2.
Value of
Table 4.1.6.2.-B Basic Roof Snow Load Factor for
Forming Part of Sentence 4.1.6.2.(2)
Value of Cw
1.0 0.75 0.5 Value of Cb
70 0.80 0.80 0.80
80 0.82 0.85 0.91 100 0.85 0.94 1.11 120 0.88 1.01 1.27 140 0.90 1.07 1.40 160 0.92 1.12 1.51 180 0.93 1.16 1.60 200 0.95 1.19 1.67 220 0.96 1.21 1.73 240 0.96 1.24 1.78 260 0.97 1.25 1.82 280 0.98 1.27 1.85 300 0.98 1.28 1.88 320 0.98 1.29 1.90 340 0.99 1.30 1.92 360 0.99 1.30 1.93 380 0.99 1.31 1.95 400 0.99 1.31 1.96 420 0.99 1.32 1.96 440 1.00 1.32 1.97 460 1.00 1.32 1.98 480 1.00 1.32 1.98 500 1.00 1.33 1.98 520 1.00 1.33 1.99 540 1.00 1.33 1.99 560 1.00 1.33 1.99 580 1.00 1.33 1.99 600 1.00 1.33 1.99 620 1.00 1.33 2.00
The slope factor, Cs, for unobstructed slippery roofs where snow and ice can slide completely off the roof shall be
a) 1.0 where the roof slope, α, is equal to or less than 15°,
b) (60° − α)/45° where α is greater than 15° but not greater than 60°, and
c) 0 where α exceeds 60°.
7) Unless otherwise stated in this Subsection, the slope factor, Cs, shall be 1.0 when used in conjunction with accumulation factors for increased snow loads.
8) The accumulation factor, Ca, shall be 1.0, which corresponds to the uniform snow load case, except that where appropriate for the shape of the roof, it shall be assigned other values that account for
a) increased non-uniform snow loads due to snow drifting onto a roof
that is at a level lower than other parts of the same building or at a level lower than another building within 5 m of it horizontally, as prescribed in Articles 4.1.6.5., 4.1.6.6. and 4.1.6.8.,
6)
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division B 4-15
      © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 4.1.6.3.
Division B
4.1.6.3.
b) increased non-uniform snow loads on areas adjacent to roof projections, such as penthouses, large chimneys and equipment, as prescribed in Articles 4.1.6.7. and 4.1.6.8.,
c) non-uniform snow loads on gable, arch or curved roofs and domes, as prescribed in Articles 4.1.6.9. and 4.1.6.10.,
d) increased snow or ice loads due to snow sliding as prescribed in Article 4.1.6.11.,
e) increased snow loads in roof valleys, as prescribed in Article 4.1.6.12., and
f) increased snow or ice loads due to meltwater draining from adjacent
building elements and roof projections.
9) For shapes not addressed in Sentence (8), Ca corresponding to the non-uniform snow load case shall be established based on applicable field observations, special analyses including local climatic effects, appropriate model tests, or a combination
of these methods.
Full and Partial Loading
1) A roof or other building surface and its structural members subject to loads due to snow accumulation shall be designed for the specified load given in Sentence 4.1.6.2.(1), distributed over the entire loaded area.
2) In addition to the distribution mentioned in Sentence (1), flat roofs and shed roofs, gable roofs of 15° slope or less, and arch or curved roofs shall be designed for the specified uniform snow load indicated in Sentence 4.1.6.2.(1), which shall be calculated using the accumulation factor Ca = 1.0, distributed on any one portion of the loaded area and half of this load on the remainder of the loaded area, in such a way as to produce the most critical effects on the member concerned. (See Note A-4.1.6.3.(2).)
Specified Rain Load
1) Except as provided in Sentence (4), the specified load, S, due to the accumulation of rainwater on a surface whose position, shape and deflection under load make such an accumulation possible, is that resulting from the one-day rainfall determined in conformance with Subsection 1.1.3. and applied over the horizontal projection of the surface and all tributary surfaces. (See Note A-4.1.6.4.(1).)
2) The provisions of Sentence (1) apply whether or not the surface is provided with a means of drainage, such as rainwater leaders.
3) Except as provided in Sentence 4.1.6.2.(1), loads due to rain need not be considered to act simultaneously with loads due to snow. (See Note A-4.1.6.4.(3).)
4) Where scuppers are provided and where the position, shape and deflection of the loaded surface make an accumulation of rainwater possible, the loads due
to rain shall be the lesser of either the one-day rainfall determined in conformance with Subsection 1.1.3. or a depth of rainwater equal to 30 mm above the level of the scuppers, applied over the horizontal projection of the surface and tributary areas.
Multi-level Roofs
1) The drifting load of snow on a roof adjacent to a higher roof shall be taken as trapezoidal, as shown in Figure 4.1.6.5.-A, and the accumulation factor, Ca, shall be determined as follows:
where
Ca0 = peak value of Ca at x = 0 determined in accordance with Sentences (3)
and (4) and as shown in Figure 4.1.6.5.-B,
x = distance from roof step as shown in Figure 4.1.6.5.-A, and
4.1.6.4.
4.1.6.5.
4-16 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
  © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 4.1.6.5.
2)
xd = length of drift determined in accordance with Sentence (2) and as shown in Figure 4.1.6.5.-A.
The length of the drift, xd, shall be calculated as follows:
where
γ = specific weight of snow as specified in Article 4.1.6.13.
Figure 4.1.6.5.-A
Snow load factors for lower level roofs
Forming Part of Sentences 4.1.6.5.(1) and (3) and 4.1.6.6.(1)
Notes to Figure 4.1.6.5.-A:
(1) Ifa>5morh≤0.8Ss/γ,driftingfromthehigherroofneednotbeconsidered.
(2) For lower roofs with parapets, CS = 1.0, otherwise it varies as a function of slope α as defined in
Sentences 4.1.6.2.(5) and (6).
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Amended Page Division B 4-17
    x
 hp
  h
h
a
Distribution of snow load, S
xd
x = 5CbSs(C − 1) α dγa0
Ca0 = the lesser of
γh CbSs
α and F
Cb
h′ = h − CbCwSs γ
   β
         x = 10 h′
  x
Factors(1)
 Cw
C (2) s
Ca
0
1.0
f(α)
Ca0
0 < x ≤ xd
1.0
f(α)
Ca0 −(Ca0 −1) x xd
xd < x ≤ 10 h′
1.0
f(α)
1.0
x > 10 h′
1.0 for non-exposed
roof areas
0.75 for exposed roof areas 0.5 for exposed roof areas north of tree line
f(α)
1.0
EG01301B
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 4.1.6.5.
Division B
4-18 Division B
Amended Page National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
3)
The value of Ca0 for each of Cases I, II, and III shall be the lesser of
where
β = 1.0 for Case I, and 0.67 for Cases II and III,
h = difference in elevation between the lower roof surface and the top of the
parapet on the upper roof as shown in Figure 4.1.6.5.-A, and '
where
Cws = value of Cw applicable to the source of drifting,
lcs = characteristic length of the source area for drifting, defined as , where ws and ls are respectively the shorter and longer dimensions of the relevant source areas for snow drifting shown in Figure 4.1.6.5.-B for Cases I, II and III, and
''
where
hp = height of the roof perimeter parapet of the source area, to be taken as zero
unless all the roof edges of the source area have parapets.
4) The value of Ca0 shall be the highest of Cases I, II and III, considering the different roof source areas for drifting snow, as specified in Sentence (3) and Figure 4.1.6.5.-B.
   © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
4.1.6.7.
4.1.6.6.
4.1.6.7.
Horizontal Gap between a Roof and a Higher Roof
1) Where the roof of one building is separated by a distance, a, from an adjacent building with a higher roof as shown in Figure 4.1.6.5.-A, the influence of the adjacent building on the value of the accumulation factor, Ca, for the lower roof shall be determined as follows:
a) if a > 5 m, the influence of the adjacent building on Ca for the lower roof can be ignored, and
b) if a ≤ 5 m, Ca for the lower roof shall be calculated in accordance with Article 4.1.6.5. for values of x ≥ a.
Areas Adjacent to Roof Projections
1) Except as provided in Sentences (2) and (3), the accumulation factor, Ca, for
areas adjacent to roof-mounted vertical projections shall be calculated in accordance
Figure 4.1.6.5.-B
Snow load cases I, II and III for lower level roofs Forming Part of Sentences 4.1.6.5.(1), (3) and (4)
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 4-19
    Case I
W i n d
ROOF PLAN Case II
Case III
W i n d
distance to upwind roof edge
EG01302B
W i n d
 Lower Roof
Upper Roof
source area for snow in drift
 snow drift
   Upper Roof
length of step
       Lower Lower
roof Roof
Source
area for
source area for
snow in drift drift
Snow drift
snow drift
   source
area for
snow in Source
drift area for
snow in drift
  Upper Roof
h
Lower Roof
snow drift
 Parameter
Case I
Case II
Case III
β
1.0
0.67
0.67
hp
parapet height of upper-roof source area
parapet height of lower-roof source area
parapet height of lower-roof source area
w2 lcs = 2ws – s ls
with ws and ls being the shorter and longer dimensions of the upper roof
with ws and ls being the shorter and longer dimensions of source area on lower roof for upwind facing step
with ws and ls being the shorter and longer dimensions of the source area on the lower roof for downwind facing step
  © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 4.1.6.8.
Division B
4.1.6.8.
with Sentence 4.1.6.5.(1) using the following values for the peak accumulation factor, Ca0, and the drift length, xd:
a) Ca0 shall be taken as the lesser of
b) xd shall be taken as the lesser of 3.35h and (2/3)l0, where h = height of the projection, and
l0 = longest horizontal dimension of the projection. (See Note A-4.1.6.7.(1).)
2) Ca is permitted to be calculated in accordance with Article 4.1.6.5. for larger projections. (See Note A-4.1.6.7.(2).)
3) Where the longest horizontal dimension of the roof projection, l0, is less than 3 m, the drift surcharge adjacent to the projection need not be considered.
Snow Drift at Corners
1) The drift loads on the lower level roof against the two faces of an outside corner of an upper level roof or roof obstruction shall be extended radially around the corner as shown in Figure 4.1.6.8.-A and may be taken as the least severe of the drift loads lying against the two faces of the corner.
2) The drift loads on the lower level roof against the two faces of an inside corner of an upper level roof or a parapet shall be calculated for each face and applied as far as the bisector of the corner angle as shown in Figure 4.1.6.8.-B.
Figure 4.1.6.8.-A
Snow load at outside corner Forming Part of Sentence 4.1.6.8.(1)
4-20 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
      Face with higher Ca0
Upper roof
radius of drift surcharge = xd
Upper roof
xd Lower roof
Face with lower Ca0
EG01383B
Lower roof
   © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
4.1.6.10.
4.1.6.9.
Gable Roofs
(See Note A-4.1.6.9.)
4.1.6.10.
1) For all gable roofs, the full and partial load cases defined in Article 4.1.6.3. shall be considered.
2) For gable roofs with a slope α > 15°, the unbalanced load case shall also be considered by setting the values of the accumulation factor, Ca, as follows:
a) on the upwind side of the roof peak, Ca shall be taken as 0, and
b) on the downwind side of the roof peak, Ca shall be taken as
i) 0.25+α/20,where15°≤α≤20°,and ii) 1.25,where20°<α≤90°.
3) For all gable roofs, the slope factor, Cs, shall be as prescribed in Sentences 4.1.6.2.(5) and (6).
4) For all gable roofs, the wind exposure factor, Cw, shall be
a) as prescribed in Sentences 4.1.6.2.(3) and (4) for the full and partial load
cases, and
b) 1.0 for the unbalanced load case referred to in Sentence (2).
Arch Roofs, Curved Roofs and Domes
1) For all arch roofs, curved roofs and domes, the full and partial load cases
defined in Article 4.1.6.3. shall be considered.
2) For arch roofs, curved roofs and domes with a rise-to-span ratio h/b > 0.05 (see Figure 4.1.6.10.-A), the load cases provided in Sentences (3) to (7) shall also be considered.
Figure 4.1.6.8.-B
Snow load at inside corner Forming Part of Sentence 4.1.6.8.(2)
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 4-21
       Face with lower Ca0
Upper roof
Lower roof
Upper roof
Lower roof
Face with higher Ca0
bisector of angle between two faces
EG01384B
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 4.1.6.10.
Division B
4-22 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
3) For arch roofs with a slope at the edge αe ≤ 30° (see Figure 4.1.6.10.-A and Table 4.1.6.10.), Ca shall be
a) taken as 0 on the upwind side of the peak, and
b) on the downwind side of the peak, taken as
where
x = horizontal distance from the roof peak, h = height of arch, and
b = width of arch.
Figure 4.1.6.10.-A
Accumulation factors for arch roofs and curved roofs Forming Part of Sentences 4.1.6.10.(2) to (4)
Note to Figure 4.1.6.10.-A:
(1) Refer to Table 4.1.6.10. for applicable values of Cw and Sentences 4.1.6.2.(5) and (6) for applicable values of Cs.
      wind
 α = 15 ̊ α = 30 ̊
α
α = 15 ̊
α = 30 ̊
         h
αe = slope at edge
15 ̊ < α < 30 ̊
Ca
CsCa not slippery CsCa slippery
Ca and CsCa not slippery CsCa slippery
  b
α < 15 ̊
x30
  α ≥ 30 ̊
α ≥ 30 ̊
      x15
x
  15 ̊ < α < 30 ̊
Case I, balanced: all values of αe
Case II, unbalanced: αe ≤ 30 ̊
Case II, unbalanced: αe > 30 ̊
Ca
CsCa not slippery CsCa slippery
                       EG01307B
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
4.1.6.10.
Load Case
Case I
Domes Ca Ca Ca
4)
Table a) b)
For arch roofs with a slope at the edge αe > 30° (see Figure 4.1.6.10.-A and 4.1.6.10.), Ca shall be
taken as 0 on the upwind side of the peak, and on the downwind side of the peak,
i) forthepartoftheroofbetweenthepeakandpointwhere the slope α = 30°, taken as
where
x, h, b = as specified in Sentence (2), and
x30 = value of x where the slope α = 30°, and
ii) forthepartoftheroofwheretheslopeα>30°,takenas
Except as provided in Sentence (6), Ca for curved roofs shall be determined in accordance with the requirements for arch roofs stated in Sentences (3) and (4).
5)
Range of Application
All values of h/b
Table 4.1.6.10.
Load Cases for Arch Roofs, Curved Roofs and Domes Forming Part of Sentences 4.1.6.10.(3), (4) and (9)
All Arch or Curved Roofs and Domes
Cw
As stated in 4.1.6.2.(3) and (4)
Factors Arch and Curved Roofs
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Amended Page Division B 4-23
Upwind Side Downwind Side
1.0 1.0
Downwind Side
1.0
           Case II
  Slope at edge ≤ 30° h/b > 0.05
all values of x
 1.0
  0.0
      Slope at edge > 30° h/b > 0.05
0 < x < x30
 1.0
  0.0
   Slope at edge >30° h/b > 0.05
x ≥ x30
 1.0
  0.0
      © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 4.1.6.11.
Division B
4.1.6.11.
Notes to Figure 4.1.6.10.-B:
(1) Refer to Table 4.1.6.10. for applicable values of Cw and Sentences 4.1.6.2.(5) and (6) for applicable values of Cs.
(2) Refer to Sentences 4.1.6.10.(3) and (4) for the calculation of Ca(x,0).
Snow Loads Due to Sliding
1) Except as provided in Sentence (2), where an upper roof, or part thereof, slopes downwards with a slope α > 0 towards a lower roof, the snow load, S, on the lower roof, determined in accordance with Articles 4.1.6.2. and 4.1.6.5., shall be augmented in accordance with Sentence (3) to account for the additional load resulting from sliding snow.
4-24 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
6) Where the slope, α, of a curved roof at its peak is greater than 10°, Ca shall be determined in accordance with the requirements for gable roofs stated in Article 4.1.6.9. using a slope equal to the mean slope of the curved roof.
7) For domes of circular plan form (see Figure 4.1.6.10.-B), Ca shall
a) along the central axis parallel to the wind, vary in the same way as for an
arch roof with the same rise-to-span ratio, h/b, and
b) off this axis, vary according to
where
Ca(x,y) = value of Ca at location (x,y),
Ca(x,0) = value of Ca on the central axis parallel to the wind,
x =distancealongthecentralaxisparalleltothewind, y =horizontalcoordinatenormaltothexdirection,and
r = radius of dome.
8) For all arch roofs, curved roofs and domes, the slope factor, Cs, shall be as prescribed in Sentences 4.1.6.2.(5) and (6).
9) For all arch roofs, curved roofs and domes, the wind exposure factor, Cw, shall be as prescribed in Table 4.1.6.10.
Figure 4.1.6.10.-B
Unbalanced snow accumulation factor on a circular dome Forming Part of Sentence 4.1.6.10.(7)
        Wind
Plan View
ry Ca(x,y) = Ca(x,0)(1– r )
 y
x
Ca(x,0)
 EG01308B
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
4.1.6.12.
4.1.6.12.
Valleys in Curved or Sloped Roofs
1) For valleys in curved or sloped roofs with a slope α > 10°, in addition to the full and partial load cases defined in Article 4.1.6.3., the non-uniform load cases II and III presented in Sentences (2) and (3) shall be considered to account for sliding, creeping and movement of meltwater.
2) For case II (see Figure 4.1.6.12.), the accumulation factor, Ca, shall be calculated as follows:
where
x = horizontal distance from the bottom of the valley, and
b = twice the horizontal distance between the bottom of the valley and the
peak of the roof surface in question.
2)
a)
b)
Sentence (1) need not apply where
snow from the upper roof is prevented from sliding by a parapet or other effective means, or
the upper roof is not considered slippery and has a slope of less than 20°.
The total weight of additional snow resulting from sliding shall be taken as half the total weight of snow resulting from the uniform load case prescribed in Article 4.1.6.2. with
a) the accumulation factor Ca = 1.0 for the relevant part of the upper roof,
b) the slope factor, Cs, based on the slope of the lower roof, as prescribed in
Sentences 4.1.6.2.(5) and (6), and
c) the sliding snow distributed on the lower roof such that it is a maximum
for x = 0 and decreases linearly to 0 at x = xd, as shown in Figure 4.1.6.11., where x and xd are as defined in Article 4.1.6.5.
Figure 4.1.6.11.
Snow distribution on lower roof with sloped upper roof Forming Part of Sentence 4.1.6.11.(3)
3)
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 4-25
     h
Distribution of snow load, S
sliding load drift load
α
   xd
EG01309B
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 4.1.6.13.
Division B
4.1.6.13.
4.1.6.14.
4.1.6.15.
Notes to Figure 4.1.6.12.:
(1) CW = 1, as per Sentence 4.1.6.2.(3). (2) CS = 1, as per Sentence 4.1.6.2.(7).
Specific Weight of Snow
1) For the purposes of calculating snow loads in drifts, the specific weight of snow,
γ, shall be taken as 4.0 kN/m3 or 0.43SS + 2.2 kN/m3, whichever is lesser.
Snow Removal
1) Snow removal by mechanical, thermal, manual or other means shall not be used
as a rationale to reduce design snow loads.
Ice Loading of Structures
1) For lattice structures connected to the building, and other building components or appurtenances involving small width elements subject to significant ice accretion, the weight of ice accretion and the effective area presented to wind shall be as prescribed in CSA S37, “Antennas, Towers, and Antenna-Supporting Structures.”
4-26 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
3) For case III (see Figure 4.1.6.12.), Ca shall be calculated as follows:
where
x, b = as specified in Sentence (2).
Figure 4.1.6.12.
Snow loads in valleys of sloped or curved roofs Forming Part of Sentences 4.1.6.12.(2) and (3)
     xx 12
αα
12
αα
12
bb 12
22
        b 1
4
b 2
4
 Case I
Case II
Case III
S = Is (Ss + Sr) S = Is (0.5Ss + Sr)
S = Is (1.5Ss + Sr) S = Is (0.5Ss + Sr)
EG01310A
  bb 12
88
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 4.1.7.3.
4.1.7. 4.1.7.1.
Wind Load Specified Wind Load
1) The specified wind loads for a building and its components shall be determined using the Static, Dynamic or Wind Tunnel Procedure as stated in Sentences (2) to (5).
2) For the design of buildings that are not dynamically sensitive, as defined in Sentence 4.1.7.2.(1), one of the following procedures shall be used to determine the specified wind loads:
a) the Static Procedure described in Article 4.1.7.3.,
b) the Dynamic Procedure described in Article 4.1.7.8., or
c) the Wind Tunnel Procedure described in Article 4.1.7.12.
3) For the design of buildings that are dynamically sensitive, as defined in Sentence 4.1.7.2.(2), one of the following procedures shall be used to determine the specified wind loads:
a) the Dynamic Procedure described in Article 4.1.7.8., or
b) the Wind Tunnel Procedure described in Article 4.1.7.12.
4) For the design of buildings that may be subject to wake buffeting or channelling effects from nearby buildings, or that are very dynamically sensitive, as defined in Sentence 4.1.7.2.(3), the Wind Tunnel Procedure described in Article 4.1.7.12., shall be used to determine the specified wind loads.
5) For the design of cladding and secondary structural members, one of the following procedures shall be used to determine the specified wind loads:
a) the Static Procedure described in Article 4.1.7.3., or
b) the Wind Tunnel Procedure described in Article 4.1.7.12.
6) Computational fluid dynamics shall not be used to determine the specified wind loads for a building and its components. (See Note A-4.1.7.1.(6).)
Classification of Buildings
(See Note A-4.1.7.2.)
1) Except as provided in Sentences (2) and (3), a building is permitted to be classified as not dynamically sensitive.
2) A building shall be classified as dynamically sensitive if
a) its lowest natural frequency is less than 1 Hz and greater than 0.25 Hz,
b) its height is greater than 60 m, or
c) its height is greater than 4 times its minimum effective width, where the
effective width, w, of a building shall be taken as
where the summations are over the height of the building for a given wind direction, hi is the height above grade to level i, and wi is the width normal to the wind direction at height hi; the minimum effective width is the lowest value of the effective width considering all wind directions.
3) A building shall be classified as very dynamically sensitive if
a) its lowest natural frequency is less than or equal to 0.25 Hz, or
b) its height is more than 6 times its minimum effective width as defined in
Clause (2)(c).
Static Procedure
1) The specified external pressure or suction due to wind on part or all of a surface
of a building shall be calculated as follows:
4.1.7.2.
4.1.7.3.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Amended Page Division B 4-27
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 4.1.7.3.
Division B
Low
Normal
High Post-disaster
ULS
0.8 1 1.15 1.25
SLS
0.75 0.75 0.75 0.75
4-28 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
where
p =specifiedexternalpressureactingstaticallyandinadirectionnormaltothe
surface, considered positive when the pressure acts towards the surface
and negative when it acts away from the surface,
IW = importance factor for wind load, as provided in Table 4.1.7.3.,
q = reference velocity pressure, as provided in Sentence (4), Ce = exposure factor, as provided in Sentences (5) and (7),
Ct = topographic factor, as provided in Article 4.1.7.4.,
Cg = gust effect factor, as provided in Sentence (8), and
Cp = external pressure coefficient, as provided in Articles 4.1.7.5. and 4.1.7.6.
Table 4.1.7.3.
Importance Factor for Wind Load, IW Forming Part of Sentences 4.1.7.3.(1) and (3)
Importance Category
Importance Factor, IW
The net wind load for the building as a whole shall be the algebraic difference of the loads on the windward and leeward surfaces, and in some cases, may be calculated as the sum of the products of the external pressures or suctions and the areas of the surfaces over which they are averaged as provided in Sentence (1).
3) The net specified pressure due to wind on part or all of a surface of a building shall be the algebraic difference, such as to produce the most critical effect, of the external pressure or suction calculated in accordance with Sentence (1) and the
2)
specified
where
IW, q, Ct Cei Cgi Cpi
internal pressure or suction due to wind calculated as follows:
= specified internal pressure acting statically and in a direction normal to the surface, either as a pressure directed towards the surface or as a suction directed away from the surface,
= as defined in Sentence (1),
= exposure factor for internal pressure, as provided in Sentence (7), = internal gust effect factor, as provided in Sentence (10), and
= internal pressure coefficient, as provided in Article 4.1.7.7.
pi
4) The reference velocity pressure, q, shall be the appropriate value determined in conformance with Subsection 1.1.3., based on a probability of being exceeded in any one year of 1 in 50.
5) The exposure factor, Ce, shall be based on the reference height, h, determined in accordance with Sentence (6), for the surface or part of the surface under consideration and shall be
a) (h/10)0.2 but not less than 0.9 for open terrain, where open terrain is level terrain with only scattered buildings, trees or other obstructions, open water or shorelines thereof,
b) 0.7(h/12)0.3 but not less than 0.7 for rough terrain, where rough terrain is suburban, urban or wooded terrain extending upwind from the building uninterrupted for at least 1 km or 20 times the height of the building, whichever is greater, or
c) an intermediate value between the two exposures defined in Clauses (a) and (b) in cases where the site is less than 1 km or 20 times the height of the
      © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
4.1.7.4.
4.1.7.4.
6)
a) b)
c)
7)
a) b)
building from a change in terrain conditions, whichever is greater, provided an appropriate interpolation method is used (see Note A-4.1.7.3.(5)(c)).
The reference height, h, shall be determined as follows:
for buildings whose height is less than or equal to 20 m and less than the smaller plan dimension, h shall be the mid-height of the roof above grade, but not less than 6 m,
for other buildings, h shall be
i) theactualheightabovegradeofthepointonthewindward wall for which external pressures are being calculated,
ii) themid-heightoftheroofforpressuresonsurfacesparallel to the wind direction, and
iii) themid-heightofthebuildingforpressuresontheleeward wall, and
for any structural element exposed to wind, h shall be the mid-height of the element above the ground.
The exposure factor for internal pressures, Cei, shall be determined as follows: for buildings whose height is greater than 20 m and that have a dominant opening, Cei shall be equal to the exposure factor for external pressures, Ce, calculated at the mid-height of the dominant opening, and
for other buildings, Cei shall be the same as the exposure factor for external pressures, Ce, calculated for a reference height, h, equal to the mid-height of the building or 6 m, whichever is greater.
Except as provided in Sentences (9) and 4.1.7.6.(1), the gust effect factor, Cg, shall be one of the following values:
a) 2.0 for the building as a whole and main structural members, or
b) 2.5 for external pressures and suctions on secondary structural members,
including cladding.
9) For cases where Cg and Cp are combined into a single product, CpCg, the values of Cp and Cg need not be independently specified. (See Article 4.1.7.6.)
10) The internal gust effect factor, Cgi, shall be 2.0, except it is permitted to be calculated using the following equation for large structures enclosing a single large unpartitioned volume that does not have numerous overhead doors or openings:
where
V0 = internal volume, in m3, and
A =totalareaofallexterioropeningsofthevolume,inm2. (See Note A-4.1.7.3.(10).)
Topographic Factor
1) Except as provided in Sentence (2), the topographic factor, Ct, shall be taken
as 1.0.
2) For buildings on hills or escarpments with a slope, Hh/(2Lh), greater than 0.1 (see Figure 4.1.7.4.), the topographic factor, Ct, shall be calculated as follows:
where
8)
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 4-29
    © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 4.1.7.4.
Division B
where
ΔSmax = applicable value from Table 4.1.7.4.,
x =horizontaldistancefromthepeakofthehillorescarpment,
Lh = horizontal distance upwind from the peak to the point where the ground
surface lies at half the height of the hill or escarpment, or 2Hh (where
Hh = height of hill or escarpment), whichever is greater, z = height above ground, and
kandα =applicableconstantsfromTable4.1.7.4.basedonshapeofhillorescarpment.
Shape of Hill or Escarpment
2-dimensional hill
2-dimensional escarpment 3-dimensional axi-symmetrical hill
Notes to Table 4.1.7.4.:
ΔSmax(1) α
k
x<0 x≥0
Note to Figure 4.1.7.4.:
(1) V(z) = wind speed
Figure 4.1.7.4.
Speed-up of mean velocity on a hill or escarpment Forming Part of Sentence 4.1.7.4.(2)
Table 4.1.7.4.
Parameters for Maximum Speed-up Over Hills and Escarpments Forming Part of Sentence 4.1.7.4.(2)
(1) For Hh/Lh > 0.5, assume Hh/Lh = 0.5 and substitute 2 Hh for Lh in the equation for ΔS.
4-30 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
2.2 Hh/Lh 1.3 Hh/Lh 1.6 Hh/Lh
3 1.5 1.5 2.5 1.5 4
4 1.5 1.5
                         V(z)
Hill
V(z)
“speed-up” ΔS·V(z)
Hh/2 Hh/2
ΔS·V(z) x
    z
        x
     z V(z)
L h
Hh
                           z
              z V(z)
Hh Lh Escarpment
  EG00915C
      © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 4.1.7.6.
4.1.7.5.
External Pressure Coefficients
1) Applicable values of external pressure coefficients, Cp, are provided in
a) Sentences (2) to (5), and
b) Article 4.1.7.6. for certain shapes of low buildings.
2) For the design of the main structural system, the value of Cp shall be established as follows, where H is the height of the building and D is the width of the building parallel to the wind direction:
a) on the windward face,
Cp = 0.6 for H/D < 0.25
= 0.27(H/D + 2) for 0.25 ≤ H/D < 1.0, and
= 0.8 for H/D ≥ 1.0, b) on the leeward face,
Cp = –0.3 for H/D < 0.25,
= –0.27(H/D + 0.88) for 0.25 ≤ H/D < 1.0, and = –0.5 for H/D ≥ 1.0, and
c) on the walls parallel to the wind, Cp = –0.7. (See Note A-4.1.7.5.(2) and (3).)
3) For the design of roofs, the value of Cp shall be established as follows, where x is the distance from the upwind edge of the roof:
a) for H/D ≥ 1.0, Cp = –1.0, and
b) for H/D < 1.0,
Cp =–1.0forx≤H,and = –0.5 for x > H.
(See Note A-4.1.7.5.(2) and (3).)
4) For the design of the cladding and of secondary structural elements supporting the cladding, the value of Cp shall be established as follows, where W and D are the widths of the building:
a) on walls, Cp shall be taken as ±0.9, except that within a distance equal to the larger of 0.1D and 0.1W from a building corner, the negative value of Cp shall be taken as –1.2,
b) on walls where vertical ribs deeper than 1 m are placed on the facade, Cp shall be taken as ±0.9, except that, within a distance equal to the larger of 0.2D and 0.2W from a building corner, the negative value of Cp shall be taken as –1.4, and
c) on roofs, Cp shall be taken as –1.0, except that
i) withinadistanceequaltothelargerof0.1Dand0.1Wfrom
a roof edge, Cp shall be taken as –1.5,
ii) in a zone that is within a distance equal to the larger of
0.2W and 0.2D from a roof corner, Cp shall be taken as –2.3 but is permitted to be taken as –2.0 for roofs with perimeter parapets that are higher than 1 m, and
iii) on lower levels of flat stepped roofs, positive pressure coefficients established for the walls of the steps apply for a distance b (see Figure 4.1.7.6.-D for the definition of b).
(See Note A-4.1.7.5.(4).)
5) For the design of balcony guards, the internal pressure coefficient, Cpi, shall be taken as zero and the value of Cp shall be taken as ±0.9, except that within a distance equal to the larger of 0.1W and 0.1D from a building corner, Cp shall be taken as ±1.2.
External Pressure Coefficients for Low Buildings
1) For the design of buildings with a height, H, that is both less than or equal to 20 m and less than the smaller plan dimension, the values of the product of the pressure coefficient and gust factor, CpCg, provided in Sentences (2) to (9) are permitted to be used.
2) For the design of the main structural system of the building, which is affected by wind pressures on more than one surface, the values of CpCg are provided in Figure 4.1.7.6.-A.
4.1.7.6.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 4-31
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 4.1.7.6.
Division B
4-32 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Figure 4.1.7.6.-A
External peak values of CpCg for primary structural actions arising from wind load acting simultaneously on all surfaces of low buildings (H ≤ 20 m)
Forming Part of Sentence 4.1.7.6.(2)
    4E
H
42 2E
Load Case A: winds generally perpendicular to ridge 3
2.5 H(8)
1
reference height, (h)(5)
  3E
roof slope
B
    y(6)
1E
  wind direction range
 Roof Slope
Building Surfaces
 1
1E
2
2E
3
3E
4
4E
0° to 5°
0.75
1.15
-1.3
-2.0
-0.7
-1.0
-0.55
-0.8
20°
1.0
1.5
-1.3
-2.0
-0.9
-1.3
-0.8
-1.2
30° to 45°
1.05
1.3
0.4
0.5
-0.8
-1.0
-0.7
-0.9
90°
1.05
1.3
1.05
1.3
-0.7
-0.9
-0.7
-0.9
       4E
2E
Load Case B: winds generally parallel to ridge 3
6
6E
  3E
4
roof slope
2
 1
  5
1E
5E
Z(7)
wind direction range
y(6)
  Roof Slope
Building Surfaces
 1
1E
2
2E
3
3E
4
4E
5
5E
6
6E
0° to 90°
-0.85
-0.9
-1.3
-2.0
-0.7
-1.0
-0.85
-0.9
0.75
1.15
-0.55
-0.8
      EG00920B
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
4.1.7.6.
Notes to Figure 4.1.7.6.-A:
(1) Thebuildingmustbedesignedforallwinddirections.Eachcornermustbeconsideredinturnasthewindward corner shown in the sketches. For all roof slopes, Load Case A and Load Case B are required as two separate loading conditions to generate the wind actions, including torsion, to be resisted by the structural system.
(2) Forvaluesofroofslopenotshown,thecoefficient(CpCg)canbeinterpolatedlinearly.
(3) Positivecoefficientsdenoteforcestowardthesurface,whereasnegativecoefficientsdenoteforcesaway
from the surface.
(4) Forthedesignoffoundations,exclusiveofanchoragestotheframe,only70%oftheeffectiveloadistobe
considered.
(5) Thereferenceheight,h,forpressuresisthemid-heightoftheroofor6m,whicheverisgreater.Theeave
height, H, may be substituted for the mid-height of the roof if the roof slope is less than 7°.
(6) End-zonewidthyshouldbethegreaterof6mor2z,wherezisthewidthofthegable-wallendzonedefined for Load Case B below. Alternatively, for buildings with frames, the end zone y may be the distance between
the end and the first interior frame.
(7) End-zonewidthzisthelesserof10%oftheleasthorizontaldimensionand40%ofheight,H,butnotless
than 4% of the least horizontal dimension or 1 m.
(8) ForB/H>5inLoadCaseA,thelistednegativecoefficientsonsurfaces2and2Eshouldonlybeappliedon
an area whose width is 2.5H measured from the windward eave. The pressures on the remainder of the windward roof should be reduced to the pressures for the leeward roof.
3) For the design of individual walls and wall cladding, the values of CpCg are provided in Figure 4.1.7.6.-B.
4) For the design of roofs with a slope less than or equal to 7°, the values of CpCg are provided in Figure 4.1.7.6.-C.
5) For the design of flat roofs with steps in elevation, the values of CpCg are provided in Figure 4.1.7.6.-D.
6) For the design of gabled or hipped, single-ridge roofs with a slope greater than 7°, the values of CpCg are provided in Figure 4.1.7.6.-E.
7) For the design of gabled, multi-ridge roofs, the values of CpCg are provided in
a) Figure 4.1.7.6.-C for roofs with a slope less than or equal to 10°, and
b) Figure 4.1.7.6.-F for roofs with a slope greater than 10°.
8) For monosloped roofs, the values of CpCg are provided in
a) Figure 4.1.7.6.-C for roofs with a slope less than or equal to 3°, and
b) Figure 4.1.7.6.-G for roofs with a slope greater than 3° and less than or
equal to 30°.
9) For sawtooth roofs, the values of CpCg are provided in
a) Figure 4.1.7.6.-C for roofs with a slope less than or equal to 10°, and
b) Figure 4.1.7.6.-H for roofs with a slope greater than 10°.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division B 4-33
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 4.1.7.6.
Division B
4-34 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Figure 4.1.7.6.-B
External peak values of CpCg on individual walls for the design of cladding and secondary structural members
Forming Part of Sentence 4.1.7.6.(3)
Notes to Figure 4.1.7.6.-B:
(1) These coefficients apply for any roof slope, α.
(2) End-zonewidthzisthelesserof10%oftheleasthorizontaldimensionand40%ofheight,H,butnotless
than 4% of the least horizontal dimension or 1 m.
(3) Combinationsofexternalandinternalpressuresmustbeevaluatedtoobtainthemostsevereloading.
(4) Positivecoefficientsdenoteforcestowardthesurface,whereasnegativecoefficientsdenoteforcesaway
from the surface. Each structural element must be designed to withstand forces of both signs.
(5) Pressurecoefficientsgenerallyapplyforfacadeswitharchitecturalfeatures;however,whereverticalribs
deeper than 1 m are placed on a facade, a local CpCg of –2.8 applies to zone e.
    -3.0
-2.0
-1.0
0
1.0
2.0
1 2 5 10 20 50 100 Tributary Area, m2
H
z
e
w
αz ee
z
reference z height, h
EG00921B
e w
 e w
   ew and
CpCg
      © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
4.1.7.6.
Figure 4.1.7.6.-C
External peak values of CpCg on roofs with a slope of 7° or less for the design of structural components and cladding
Forming Part of Sentences 4.1.7.6.(4), (7), (8) and (9)
Notes to Figure 4.1.7.6.-C:
(1) Coefficientsforoverhungroofshavetheprefix“o”andrefertothesameroofareasasreferredtobythe corresponding symbol without a prefix. They include contributions from both upper and lower surfaces. In the case of overhangs, the walls are inboard of the roof outline.
(2) s and r apply to both roofs and upper surfaces of canopies.
(3) End-zonewidthzisthelesserof10%oftheleasthorizontaldimensionand40%ofheight,H,butnotless
than 4% of the least horizontal dimension or 1 m.
(4) Combinationsofexternalandinternalpressuresmustbeevaluatedtoobtainthemostsevereloading.
(5) Positivecoefficientsdenoteforcestowardthesurface,whereasnegativecoefficientsdenoteforcesaway
from the surface. Each structural element must be designed to withstand forces of both signs.
(6) For calculating the uplift forces on tributary areas larger than 100 m2 on unobstructed nearly-flat roofs with low parapets, and where the centre of the tributary area is at least twice the height of the building from the
nearest edge, the value of CpCg may be reduced from –1.5 to –1.1 at x/H = 2 and further reduced linearly to
–0.6 at x/H = 5, where x is the distance to the nearest edge and H is the height of the building.
(7) Forroofshavingaperimeterparapetwithaheightof1morgreater,thecornercoefficientsCpCgfortributary
areas less than 1 m2 can be reduced from –5.4 to –4.4.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 4-35
    -6.0
-5.0
-4.0
-3.0
-2.0
-1.0
0
1.0
zz
roof with overhang roof without overhang
1 2 5 10 20 50 100(6) Tributary Area, m2
α
0° < α ≤ 7°
z
s
z c
H
reference height, h
EG00922C
    s (2)
(2)
r
(7)
c (1,7) oc
(1)
os
or
  src
   r
r
CpCg
    © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 4.1.7.6.
Division B
4-36 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Figure 4.1.7.6.-D
External peak values of CpCg for the design of the structural components and cladding of buildings with stepped roofs
Forming Part of Sentence 4.1.7.6.(5)
Notes to Figure 4.1.7.6.-D:
(1)
(2)
The zone designations, pressure-gust coefficients and notes provided in Figure 4.1.7.6.-C apply on both the upper and lower levels of flat stepped roofs, except that on the lower levels, positive pressure-gust coefficients equal to those in Figure 4.1.7.6.-B for walls apply for a distance, b, where b is equal to 1.5h1 but not greater than 30 m. For all walls in Figure 4.1.7.6.-D, zone designations and pressure coefficients provided for walls in Figure 4.1.7.6.-B apply.
Note (1) above applies only when the following conditions are met: h1 ≥ 0.3H, h1 ≥ 3 m, and W1, W2, or W3 is greater than 0.25W but not greater than 0.75W.
      h1 h2
  H
  b
 W1
W2
  W
            bb
W1 W2 W3 W
      h1
H
h2
    EG00923A
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
4.1.7.6.
Figure 4.1.7.6.-E
External peak values of CpCg on single-span gabled and hipped roofs with a slope greater than 7° for the design of structural components and cladding
Forming Part of Sentence 4.1.7.6.(6)
Notes to Figure 4.1.7.6.-E:
(1) Coefficientsforoverhungroofshavetheprefix“o”andrefertothesameroofareasasreferredtobythe corresponding symbol without a prefix. They include contributions from both upper and lower surfaces.
(2) End-zonewidthzisthelesserof10%oftheleasthorizontaldimensionand40%ofheight,H,butnotless than 4% of the least horizontal dimension or 1 m.
(3) Combinationsofexternalandinternalpressuresmustbeevaluatedtoobtainthemostsevereloading.
(4) Positivecoefficientsdenoteforcestowardsthesurface,whereasnegativecoefficientsdenoteforcesaway
from the surface. Each structural element must be designed to withstand forces of both signs.
(5) Forhippedroofswith7°<α≤27°,edge/ridgestripsandpressure-gustcoefficientsforridgesofgabledroofs
apply along each hip.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 4-37
    s
zz
z
c zz
z z
cs αα
H 7° < α ≤ 45°
reference height, h
roof with overhang roof without overhang
-8.0 -7.0
-6.0 -5.0 -4.0 -3.0 -2.0 -1.0
0.0
1.0
h
-8.0 -7.0
-6.0 -5.0 -4.0 -3.0 -2.0 -1.0
0.0
1.0
2.0
0.1 1 10 100
Tributary Area, m2
2.0
0.1 1 10 100
Tributary Area, m2
EG00924D
s
7° < α ≤ 27°
 r
r
 r
        gable roofs
27° < α ≤ 45°
oc os or
 cs
   r
 src
  gable and hip roofs
7° < α ≤ 27°
C
oc
os
  s r
    or
 src
  CpCg
CpCg
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 4.1.7.6.
Division B
4-38 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Figure 4.1.7.6.-F
External peak values of CpCg on multi-span gabled (folded) roofs with a slope greater than 10° for the design of structural components and cladding
Forming Part of Sentence 4.1.7.6.(7)
Notes to Figure 4.1.7.6.-F:
(1) End-zonewidthzisthelesserof10%oftheleasthorizontaldimensionand40%ofheight,H,butnotless than 4% of the least horizontal dimension or 1 m.
(2) Combinationsofexternalandinternalpressuresmustbeevaluatedtoobtainthemostsevereloading.
(3) Positivecoefficientsdenoteforcestowardsthesurface,whereasnegativecoefficientsdenoteforcesaway
from the surface. Each structural element must be designed to withstand forces of both signs.
(4) For α ≤ 10°, the coefficients given in Figure 4.1.7.6.-C apply, but for cases where α > than 7°, use α = 7°.
    α
s' s
c
reference α height, h
reference H height, h
s' r
src
-5.0 -4.0
-3.0 -2.0 -1.0
0.0 1.0 2.0
c
-5.0 -4.0
-3.0 -2.0 -1.0
0.0 1.0 2.0
10° < α ≤ 30°
30° < α ≤ 45°
c s r
s' s
r
0.1 1 10 100
Tributary Area, m2
0.1 1 10 100
H
src
zzzz
z z
Tributary Area, m2
EG00925B
 r
r
              CpCg
CpCg
     © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
4.1.7.6.
Figure 4.1.7.6.-G
External peak values of CpCg on monoslope roofs for the design of structural components and cladding
Forming Part of Sentence 4.1.7.6.(8)
Notes to Figure 4.1.7.6.-G:
(1) End-zonewidthzisthelesserof10%oftheleasthorizontaldimensionand40%ofheight,H,butnotless than 4% of the least horizontal dimension or 1 m.
(2) Combinationsofexternalandinternalpressuresmustbeevaluatedtoobtainthemostsevereloading.
(3) Positivecoefficientsdenoteforcestowardsthesurface,whereasnegativecoefficientsdenoteforcesaway
from the surface. Each structural element must be designed to withstand forces of both signs.
(4) For α ≤ 3°, the coefficients given in Figure 4.1.7.6.-C apply.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 4-39
    4z
2z
s
4z
z
z
H reference height, h
-6 -5 -4 -3 -2 -1
-6 -5 -4 -3 -2 -1
2z 2z
2z s
zzs αα
3°< α ≤ 10°
10°< α ≤ 30°
H
reference height, h
00
11
2 10 50
1 5 20 100
Tributary Area,m2
2 10 50
1 5 20 100
Tributary Area,m2
s
EG00926B
c'
 r
c'
c'
 s'
 c
r
 s'
 c'
s'
 c
                c' s'
c s
 r
all regions
   c'
s r
 all regions
CpCg
CpCg
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 4.1.7.7.
Division B
4.1.7.7.
Notes to Figure 4.1.7.6.-H:
(1) End-zonewidthzisthelesserof10%oftheleasthorizontaldimensionand40%ofheight,H,butnotless than 4% of the least horizontal dimension or 1 m.
(2) Combinationsofexternalandinternalpressuresmustbeevaluatedtoobtainthemostsevereloading.
(3) Positivecoefficientsdenoteforcestowardsthesurface,whereasnegativecoefficientsdenoteforcesaway
from the surface. Each structural element must be designed to withstand forces of both signs.
(4) NegativecoefficientsonthecornerzonesofSpanAdifferfromthoseonSpansB,C,andD.
(5) For α ≤ 10°, the coefficients given in Figure 4.1.7.6.-C apply, but for cases where α > than 7°, use α = 7°.
Internal Pressure Coefficient
1) The internal pressure coefficient, Cpi, shall be as prescribed in Table 4.1.7.7.
Figure 4.1.7.6.-H
External peak values of CpCg on sawtooth roofs with a slope greater than 10° for the design of structural components and cladding
Forming Part of Sentence 4.1.7.6.(9)
Building Openings
Values for Cpi
–0.15 to 0.0 –0.45 to +0.30 –0.70 to +0.70
Uniformly distributed small openings amounting to less than 0.1% of the total surface area of the building
Non-uniformly distributed openings of which none is significant or significant openings that are wind-resistant and closed during storms
Large openings likely to remain open during storms
Table 4.1.7.7.
Internal Pressure Coefficients Forming Part of Sentence 4.1.7.7.(1)
4-40 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
    zz 2z
s
z s
-8 -7 -6 -5 -4 -3 -2 -1
2z z 0
α
w/2 10°<α < 30°
1 2 5 10 20 50 100
w/2
z
1
reference 2
H height, h
3
Tributary Area, m2
EG00927C
  s
c span A
ABCD
 c spans B,C,D r
  r
c s
   c
r
  CpCg
             © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 4.1.7.8.
4.1.7.8.
Dynamic Procedure
1) For the application of the Dynamic Procedure, the provisions of Article 4.1.7.3. shall be followed, except that the exposure factor, Ce, shall be as prescribed in Sentences (2) and (3), and the gust effect factor, Cg, shall be as prescribed in Sentence (4), when determining the wind loads on the main structural system.
2) For buildings in open terrain, as defined in Clause 4.1.7.3.(5)(a), the value of Ce for the design of the main structural system shall be calculated as follows:
(See Note A-4.1.7.8.(2) and (3).)
3) For buildings in rough terrain, as defined in Clause 4.1.7.3.(5)(b), the value of Ce for the design of the main structural system shall be calculated as follows:
(See Note A-4.1.7.8.(2) and (3).)
4) For the design of the main structural system, Cg shall be calculated as follows:
where
gp = peak factor calculated as
σ/μ where
ν = average fluctuation rate calculated as
, and
,
T =3600s,
K = 0.08 for open terrain and 0.10 for rough terrain,
CeH = exposure factor evaluated at reference height h = H,
B = background turbulence factor, a function of w/H determined from
Figure 4.1.7.8.,
s =sizereductionfactorcalculatedas ,
F = gust energy ratio calculated as , where x0 = (1 220 fn/VH), and
β =dampingratio,whichshallbedeterminedbyarationalmethod,ormaybe taken to be 0.01 for steel structures, 0.02 for concrete structures, and 0.015 for composite structures,
where
fnD = natural frequency of vibration of the building in the along-wind direction, in
Hz,
fn = lowest natural frequency of the building, in Hz, as defined in
Sentences 4.1.7.2.(2) and (3), H = height of the building,
w =effectivewidthofwindwardfaceofthebuildingcalculatedas
wi = width normal to wind direction at height hi, and
VH = mean wind speed at the top of the structure, in m/s, calculated as
where
= reference wind speed at a height of 10 m, in m/s, calculated as IW = importance factor,
,where
, ,
where
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Amended Page
Division B 4-41
      © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 4.1.7.9.
Division B
4.1.7.9.
Full and Partial Wind Loading
1) Except where the wind loads are derived from the combined CpCg values determined in accordance with Article 4.1.7.6., buildings and structural members shall be capable of withstanding the effects of the following loads:
a) the full wind loads acting along each of the 2 principal horizontal axes considered separately,
b) the wind loads described in Clause (a) but with 100% of the load removed from any one portion of the area,
c) the wind loads described in Clause (a) but with both axes considered simultaneously at 75% of their full value, and
d) the wind loads described in Clause (c) but with 50% of these loads removed from any portion of the area.
(See Note A-4.1.7.9.(1).)
Interior Walls and Partitions
1) In the design of interior walls and partitions, due consideration shall be given to differences in air pressure on opposite sides of the wall or partition which may result from
a) pressure differences between the windward and leeward sides of a building,
Amended Page National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
4.1.7.10.
4-42 Division B
q = reference velocity pressure, in Pa, and
ρ = air density = 1.2929 kg/m3. (See Note A-4.1.7.8.(4).)
Figure 4.1.7.8. Background turbulence factor, B Forming Part of Sentence 4.1.7.8.(4)
    400 300
200
100 80
60 50 40
30 20
10 8
6 5 4
3 2
1
0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0
Background Turbulence Factor, B
1.6 1.8 EG00916B
1.2 1.4
 w/H
3.0
5.0
0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.5
0.7
1.0
1.5
2.0
   B = 4/3
914/H 11x
1 + xH 1 + xw (1 + x2)4/3 dx 457 122
 0
0
              Height of Structure, m
                      © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
4.1.8.1.
4.1.7.11.
Exterior Ornamentations, Equipment and Appendages
(See Note A-4.1.7.11.)
1) The effects of wind loads on exterior ornamentations, equipment and appendages, including the increase in exposed area as a result of ice buildup as prescribed in CSA S37, “Antennas, Towers, and Antenna-Supporting Structures,” shall be considered in the structural design of the connections and the building.
2) Where there are a number of similar components, the net increase in force is permitted to be based on the total area for all similar components as opposed to the summation of forces of individual elements.
Wind Tunnel Procedure
1) Except as provided in Sentences (2) and (3), wind tunnel tests on scale models to determine wind loads on buildings shall be conducted in accordance with ASCE/SEI 49, “Wind Tunnel Testing for Buildings and Other Structures.”
2) Where an adjacent building provides substantial sheltering effect, the wind loads for the main structural system shall be no lower than 80% of the loads determined from tests referred to in Sentence (1) with the effect of the sheltering building removed as applied to
a) the base shear force for buildings with a ratio of height to minimum effective width, as defined in Sentence 4.1.7.2.(2), less than or equal to 1.0, or
b) the base moment for buildings with a ratio of height to minimum effective width greater than 1.0.
3) For the design of cladding and secondary structural members, the exterior wind loads determined from the wind tunnel tests shall be no less onerous than those determined by analysis in accordance with Article 4.1.7.3. using the following assumptions:
a) Cp = ±0.72 and Cg= 2.5, where the building’s height is greater than 20 m or greater than its minimum effective width, and
b) CpCg = 80% of the values for zones w and r provided in Article 4.1.7.6., where the building’s height is less than or equal to 20 m and no greater than its minimum effective width.
Earthquake Load and Effects Analysis
1) Except as permitted in Sentence (2), the deflections and specified loading due to earthquake motions shall be determined according to the requirements of Articles 4.1.8.2. to 4.1.8.22.
2) Where IEFsSa(0.2) and IEFsSa(2.0) are less than 0.16 and 0.03 respectively, the deflections and specified loading due to earthquake motions are permitted to be determined in accordance with Sentences (3) to (15), where
a) IE is the earthquake importance factor and has a value of 0.8, 1.0, 1.3 and 1.5 for buildings of Low, Normal, High and Post-Disaster importance respectively,
b) Fs is the site coefficient based on the average 60 or su, as defined in Article 4.1.8.2., for the top 30 m of soil below the footings, pile caps, or mat foundations and has a value of
i) 1.0forrocksitesorwhen 60 >50orsu >100kPa, ii) 1.6when15≤ 60 ≤50or50kPa≤su ≤100kPa,and
iii) 2.8 for all other cases, and
c) Sa(T) is the 5% damped spectral response acceleration value for period T,
determined in accordance with Subsection 1.1.3.
4.1.7.12.
4.1.8. 4.1.8.1.
b) c)
stack effects due to a difference in air temperature between the exterior and interior of the building, and
air pressurization by the mechanical services of the building.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Amended Page Division B 4-43
  © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 4.1.8.1.
Division B
4-44 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
3) The structure shall have a clearly defined
a) Seismic Force Resisting System (SFRS) to resist the earthquake loads and
their effects, and
b) load path (or paths) that will transfer the inertial forces generated by the
earthquake to the foundations and supporting ground.
4) An unreinforced masonry SFRS shall not be permitted where
a) IE is greater than 1.0, or
b) the height above grade is greater than or equal to 30 m.
5) The height above grade of SFRS designed in accordance with CSA S136, “North American Specification for the Design of Cold-Formed Steel Structural Members (using the Appendix B provisions applicable to Canada),” shall be less than 15 m.
6) Earthquake forces shall be assumed to act horizontally and independently about any two orthogonal axes.
7) The minimum lateral earthquake design force, Vs, at the base of the structure in the direction under consideration shall be calculated as follows:
where
Sa(Ts) = value of Sa at Ts determined by linear interpolation between the value of Sa
at 0.2 s, 0.5 s, and 1.0 s, and = Sa(0.2) for Ts ≤ 0.2 s,
Wt = sum of Wi over the height of the building, where Wi is defined in Article 4.1.8.2., and
Rs = 1.5, except Rs = 1.0 for structures where the storey strength is less than that in the storey above and for an unreinforced masonry SFRS,
where
Ts = fundamental lateral period of vibration of the building, as defined in
Article 4.1.8.2.,
= 0.085(hn)3⁄4 for steel moment frames,
= 0.075(hn)3⁄4 for concrete moment frames,
= 0.1 N for other moment frames,
= 0.025hn for braced frames, and
= 0.05(hn)3⁄4 for shear walls and other structures,
where
hn = height above the base, in m, as defined in Article 4.1.8.2.,
except that Vs shall not be less than FsSa(1.0)IEWt/Rs and, in cases where Rs =1.5, Vs need not be greater than FsSa(0.5)IEWt/Rs.
8) The total lateral earthquake design force, Vs, shall be distributed over the height of the building in accordance with the following formula:
where Fx
Wx, Wi hx, hi
= force applied through the centre of mass at level x,
portion of W that is located at or is assigned to level x or i respectively, and = height, in m, above the base of level x and level i as per Article 4.1.8.2.
9) Accidental torsional effects applied concurrently with Fx shall be considered by applying torsional moments about the vertical axis at each level for each of the following cases considered separately:
a) +0.1DnxFx, and b) –0.1DnxFx.
10) Deflections obtained from a linear analysis shall include the effects of torsion and be multiplied by Rs/IE to get realistic values of expected deflections.
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 4.1.8.2.
4.1.8.2.
11) The deflections referred to in Sentence (10) shall be used to calculate the largest interstorey deflection, which shall not exceed
a) 0.01hs for post-disaster buildings,
b) 0.02hs for High Importance Category buildings, and
c) 0.025hs for all other buildings,
where hs is the interstorey height as defined in Article 4.1.8.2.
12) When earthquake forces are calculated using Rs = 1.5, the following elements in the SFRS shall have their design forces due to earthquake effects increased by 33%:
a) diaphragms and their chords, connections, struts and collectors,
b) tie downs in wood or drywall shear walls,
c) connections and anchor bolts in steel- and wood-braced frames,
d) connections in precast concrete, and
e) connections in steel moment frames.
13) Except as provided in Sentence (14), where cantilever parapet walls, other cantilever walls, exterior ornamentation and appendages, towers, chimneys or penthouses are connected to or form part of a building, they shall be designed, along with their connections, for a lateral force, Vsp, distributed according to the distribution of mass of the element and acting in the lateral direction that results in the most critical loading for design using the following equation:
where Wp = weight of a portion of a structure as defined in Article 4.1.8.2.
14) The value of Vsp shall be doubled for unreinforced masonry elements.
15) Structures designed in accordance with this Article need not comply with the
seismic requirements stated in the applicable design standard referenced in Section 4.3.
Notation
1)
In this Subsection
Ar = response amplification factor to account for type of attachment of
mechanical/electrical equipment, as defined in Sentence 4.1.8.18.(1), Ax = amplification factor at level x to account for variation of response of
mechanical/electrical equipment with elevation within the building, as
defined in Sentence 4.1.8.18.(1),
Bx = ratio at level x used to determine torsional sensitivity, as defined in
Sentence 4.1.8.11.(10),
B = maximum value of Bx, as defined in Sentence 4.1.8.11.(10),
Cp = seismic coefficient for mechanical/electrical equipment, as defined in Sentence 4.1.8.18.(1),
Dnx = plan dimension of the building at level x perpendicular to the direction of seismic loading being considered,
ex = distance measured perpendicular to the direction of earthquake loading between centre of mass and centre of rigidity at the level being considered (see Note A-4.1.8.2.(1)),
Fa = site coefficient for application in Subsection 4.1.8., as defined in Sentence 4.1.8.4.(7),
F(PGA) = site coefficient for PGA, as defined in Sentence 4.1.8.4.(5), F(PGV) = site coefficient for PGV, as defined in Sentence 4.1.8.4.(5),
Fs = site coefficient as defined in Sentence 4.1.8.1.(2) for application in Article 4.1.8.1.,
F(T) =sitecoefficientforspectralacceleration,asdefinedinSentence4.1.8.4.(5), Ft = portion of V to be concentrated at the top of the structure, as defined in
Sentence 4.1.8.11.(7),
Fv = site coefficient for application in Subsection 4.1.8., as defined in
Sentence 4.1.8.4.(7),
Fx = lateral force applied to level x, as defined in Sentence 4.1.8.11.(7),
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 4-45
  © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 4.1.8.2.
Division B
4-46 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
hi, hn, hx
hs IE
J
Jx
Leveli Leveln Level x
Mv
Mx N
60 PGA
PGAref
PGV PI Rd
Ro
Rs
Sp S(T) Sa(T)
SFRS
su T Ta
Ts
Tx TDD
V Vd
= the height above the base (i = 0) to level i, n, or x respectively, where the base of the structure is the level at which horizontal earthquake motions are considered to be imparted to the structure,
= interstorey height (hi - hi-1),
= earthquake importance factor of the structure, as described in
Sentence 4.1.8.5.(1), =numericalreductioncoefficientforbaseoverturningmoment,asdefinedin
Sentence 4.1.8.11.(6),
= numerical reduction coefficient for overturning moment at level x, as
defined in Sentence 4.1.8.11.(8), =anylevelinthebuilding,i=1forfirstlevelabovethebase, =levelthatisuppermostinthemainportionofthestructure, = level that is under design consideration,
= factor to account for higher mode effect on base shear, as defined in Sentence 4.1.8.11.(6),
= overturning moment at level x, as defined in Sentence 4.1.8.11.(8), =totalnumberofstoreysaboveexteriorgradetoleveln,
= Average Standard Penetration Resistance for the top 30 m, corrected to a
rod energy efficiency of 60% of the theoretical maximum, =PeakGroundAccelerationexpressedasaratiotogravitationalacceleration,
as defined in Sentence 4.1.8.4.(1),
= reference PGA for determining F(T), F(PGA) and F(PGV), as defined in
Sentence 4.1.8.4.(4), =PeakGroundVelocity,inm/s,asdefinedinSentence4.1.8.4.(1),
= plasticity index for clays,
= ductility-related force modification factor reflecting the capability of a
structure to dissipate energy through reversed cyclic inelastic behaviour,
as given in Article 4.1.8.9.,
= overstrength-related force modification factor accounting for the
dependable portion of reserve strength in a structure designed according
to these provisions, as defined in Article 4.1.8.9.,
= combined overstrength and ductility-related modification factor, as defined
in Sentence 4.1.8.1.(7), for application in Article 4.1.8.1.,
= horizontal force factor for part or portion of a building and its anchorage, as
given in Sentence 4.1.8.18.(1), =designspectralresponseacceleration,expressedasaratiotogravitational
acceleration, for a period of T, as defined in Sentence 4.1.8.4.(9), = 5% damped spectral response acceleration, expressed as a ratio
to gravitational acceleration, for a period of T, as defined in
Sentence 4.1.8.4.(1), =SeismicForceResistingSystem(s)isthatpartofthestructuralsystemthat
has been considered in the design to provide the required resistance to the
earthquake forces and effects defined in Subsection 4.1.8.,
= average undrained shear strength in the top 30 m of soil,
= period in seconds,
= fundamental lateral period of vibration of the building or structure, in s, in
the direction under consideration, as defined in Sentence 4.1.8.11.(3),
= fundamental lateral period of vibration of the building or structure, in s, in
the direction under consideration, as defined in Sentence 4.1.8.1.(7),
= floor torque at level x, as defined in Sentence 4.1.8.11.(11), =TotalDesignDisplacementofanypointinaseismicallyisolatedstructure,
within or above the isolation system, obtained by calculating the mean + (IE × the standard deviation) of the peak horizontal displacements from all sets of ground motion histories analyzed, but not less than √IE × the mean, where the peak horizontal displacement is based on the vector sum of the two orthogonal horizontal displacements considered for each time step,
=lateralearthquakedesignforceatthebaseofthestructure,asdetermined by Article 4.1.8.11.,
= lateral earthquake design force at the base of the structure, as determined by Article 4.1.8.12.,
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
4.1.8.3.
4.1.8.3.
General Requirements
1) The building shall be designed to meet the requirements of this Subsection and
of the design standards referenced in Section 4.3.
2) Structures shall be designed with a clearly defined load path, or paths, that will transfer the inertial forces generated in an earthquake to the supporting ground.
3) The structure shall have a clearly defined Seismic Force Resisting System(s) (SFRS), as defined in Article 4.1.8.2.
4) The SFRS shall be designed to resist 100% of the earthquake loads and their effects. (See Note A-4.1.8.3.(4).)
5) All structural framing elements not considered to be part of the SFRS must be investigated and shown to behave elastically or to have sufficient non-linear capacity to support their gravity loads while undergoing earthquake-induced deformations calculated from the deflections determined in Article 4.1.8.13.
6) Stiff elements that are not considered part of the SFRS, such as concrete, masonry, brick or precast walls or panels, shall be
a) separated from all structural elements of the building such that no interaction takes place as the building undergoes deflections due to earthquake effects as calculated in this Subsection, or
b) made part of the SFRS and satisfy the requirements of this Subsection.
(See Note A-4.1.8.3.(6).)
7) Stiffness imparted to the structure from elements not part of the SFRS, other than those described in Sentence (6), shall not be used to resist earthquake deflections but shall be accounted for
a) in calculating the period of the structure for determining forces if the added stiffness decreases the fundamental lateral period by more than 15%,
b) in determining the irregularity of the structure, except the additional stiffness shall not be used to make an irregular SFRS regular or to reduce the effects of torsion (see Note A-4.1.8.3.(7)(b) and (c)), and
c) in designing the SFRS if inclusion of the elements not part of the SFRS in the analysis has an adverse effect on the SFRS (see Note A-4.1.8.3.(7)(b) and (c)).
8) Structural modeling shall be representative of the magnitude and spatial distribution of the mass of the building and of the stiffness of all elements of the SFRS,
Ve Ved Vp
Vs W
Wi, Wx Wp
Wt δave δmax
= lateral earthquake elastic force at the base of the structure, as determined by Article 4.1.8.12.,
= lateral earthquake design elastic force at the base of the structure, as determined by Article 4.1.8.12.,
= lateral force on a part of the structure, as determined by Article 4.1.8.18., = lateral earthquake design force at the base of the structure, as determined
by Sentence 4.1.8.1.(7), for application in Article 4.1.8.1.,
= average shear wave velocity in the top 30 m of soil or rock,
= dead load, as defined in Article 4.1.4.1., except that the minimum partition
load as defined in Sentence 4.1.4.1.(3) need not exceed 0.5 kPa, plus 25% of the design snow load specified in Subsection 4.1.6., plus 60% of the storage load for areas used for storage, except that storage garages need not be considered storage areas, and the full contents of any tanks (see Note A-4.1.8.2.(1)),
= portion of W that is located at or is assigned to level i or x respectively, = weight of a part or portion of a structure, e.g., cladding, partitions and
appendages,
= sum of Wi over the height of the building, for application in
Sentence 4.1.8.1.(7),
= average displacement of the structure at level x, as defined in
Sentence 4.1.8.11.(10), and
= maximum displacement of the structure at level x, as defined in
Sentence 4.1.8.11.(10).
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 4-47
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 4.1.8.4.
Division B
4.1.8.4.
including stiff elements that are not separated in accordance with Sentence 4.1.8.3.(6), and shall account for
a) the effect of cracked sections in reinforced concrete and reinforced masonry elements,
b) the effect of the finite size of members and joints,
c) sway effects arising from the interaction of gravity loads with the displaced
configuration of the structure, and
d) other effects that influence the lateral stiffness of the building.
(See Note A-4.1.8.3.(8).)
Site Properties
1) The peak ground acceleration (PGA), peak ground velocity (PGV), and the
5% damped spectral response acceleration values, Sa(T), for the reference ground conditions (Site Class C in Table 4.1.8.4.-A) for periods T of 0.2 s, 0.5 s, 1.0 s, 2.0 s, 5.0 s and 10.0 s shall be determined in accordance with Subsection 1.1.3. and are based on a 2% probability of exceedance in 50 years.
Table 4.1.8.4.-A
Site Classification for Seismic Site Response Forming Part of Sentences 4.1.8.4.(1) to (3)
Site Class
A B
C D
E
F
Notes to Table 4.1.8.4.-A:
Ground Profile Name
Hard rock(1)(2) Rock(1)
Verydensesoiland soft rock
Stiffsoil
Soft soil
Other soils(3)
Average Shear Wave
Average Standard Penetration Resistance,
60
n/a n/a
60 >50
60 ≤50 60 <15
Soil Undrained Shear Strength, su
n/a n/a
su >100kPa
50kPa<su≤100kPa su <50kPa
Average Properties in Top 30 m, as per Note A-4.1.8.4.(3) and Table 4.1.8.4.-A
Velocity,
760 < 360< 180<
, m/s
> 1500
≤ 1500
<760
<360 <180
15≤
(1) Site Classes A and B, hard rock and rock, are not to be used if there is more than 3 m of softer materials between the rock and the underside of footing or mat foundations. The appropriate Site Class for such cases is determined on the basis of the average properties of the total thickness of the softer materials (see Note A-4.1.8.4.(3) and Table 4.1.8.4.-A).
(2) Where has been measured in-situ, the F(T) values for Site Class A derived from Tables 4.1.8.4.-B to 4.1.8.4.-G are permitted to be multiplied by the factor 0.04 + (1500/ )1⁄2.
(3) Other soils include:
(a) liquefiablesoils,quickandhighlysensitiveclays,collapsibleweaklycementedsoils,andothersoilssusceptibletofailureorcollapse
under seismic loading,
(b) peatand/orhighlyorganicclaysgreaterthan3minthickness,
(c) highlyplasticclays(PI>75)morethan8mthick,and
(d) softtomediumstiffclaysmorethan30mthick.
2) Site classifications for ground shall conform to Table 4.1.8.4.-A and shall be determined using , or where is not known, using Sentence (3).
3) If average shear wave velocity, , is not known, Site Class shall be determined from energy-corrected Average Standard Penetration Resistance, 60, or from soil average undrained shear strength, su, as noted in Table 4.1.8.4.-A, 60 and su being calculated based on rational analysis. (See Note A-4.1.8.4.(3) and Table 4.1.8.4.-A.)
4-48 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Site-specific evaluation required
            Any profile with more than 3 m of soil with the following characteristics: • plasticityindex:PI>20
• moisturecontent:w≥40%,and
• undrainedshearstrength:su<25kPa
  © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 4.1.8.4.
Site Class
Values of F(0.2)
4) For the purpose of determining the values of F(T) to be used in the calculation of design spectral acceleration, S(T), in Sentence (9), and the values of F(PGA) and F(PGV), the value of PGAref to be used with Tables 4.1.8.4.-B to 4.1.8.4.-I shall be taken as
a) 0.8 PGA, where the ratio Sa(0.2)/PGA < 2.0, and
b) PGA, otherwise.
5) The values of the site coefficient for design spectral acceleration at period T, F(T), and of similar coefficients F(PGA) and F(PGV) shall conform to Tables 4.1.8.4.-B to 4.1.8.4.-I using linear interpolation for intermediate values of PGAref.
6) Site-specific evaluation is required to determine F(T), F(PGA) and F(PGV) for Site Class F. (See Note A-4.1.8.4.(3) and Table 4.1.8.4.-A.)
7) For all applications in Subsection 4.1.8., Fa = F(0.2) and Fv = F(1.0).
8) For structures with a fundamental period of vibration equal to or less than 0.5 s
that are built on liquefiable soils, Site Class and the corresponding values of F(T) may be determined as described in Tables 4.1.8.4.-A, 4.1.8.4.-B, and 4.1.8.4.-C by assuming that the soils are not liquefiable. (See Note A-4.1.8.4.(3) and Table 4.1.8.4.-A.)
9) The design spectral acceleration values of S(T) shall be determined as follows, using linear interpolation for intermediate values of T:
A 0.69
B 0.77
C 1.00
D 1.24
E 1.64
F
Notes to Table 4.1.8.4.-B:
(1) See Sentence 4.1.8.4.(6).
(1)
0.1
Site Class
Table 4.1.8.4.-C
Values of F(0.5) as a Function of Site Class and PGAref Forming Part of Sentences 4.1.8.4.(4) and (5)
Values of F(0.5)
A 0.57
B 0.65
C 1.00
D 1.47
E 2.47
F
Notes to Table 4.1.8.4.-C:
(1) See Sentence 4.1.8.4.(6).
(1)
S(T) =F(0.2)Sa(0.2)orF(0.5)Sa(0.5),whicheverislarger,forT≤0.2s = F(0.5)Sa(0.5) for T = 0.5 s
= F(1.0)Sa(1.0) for T = 1.0 s
= F(2.0)Sa(2.0) for T = 2.0 s
PGAref ≤
PGAref = 0.2
0.57 0.65 1.00 1.30 1.80
(1)
PGAref =
0.57 0.65 1.00 1.20 1.48
(1)
0.3
PGAref =
0.57 0.65 1.00 1.14 1.30
(1)
0.4
= F(5.0)Sa(5.0)for T = 5.0 s
= F(10.0)Sa(10.0) for T ≥ 10.0 s
PGAref ≤
0.1
PGAref =
0.69 0.77 1.00 1.09 1.24
(1)
0.2
PGAref =
0.69 0.77 1.00 1.00 1.05
(1)
0.3
PGAref =
0.69 0.77 1.00 0.94 0.93
(1)
0.4
PGAref ≥ 0.5
0.69 0.77 1.00 0.90 0.85
(1)
PGAref ≥ 0.5
0.57 0.65 1.00 1.10 1.17
(1)
Table 4.1.8.4.-B
Values of F(0.2) as a Function of Site Class and PGAref Forming Part of Sentences 4.1.8.4.(4) and (5)
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Amended Page
Division B 4-49
            © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 4.1.8.4.
Division B
Site Class
Values of F(1.0)
A 0.57
B 0.63
C 1.00
D 1.55
E 2.81
0.57 0.63 1.00 1.25 1.53
(1)
F
Notes to Table 4.1.8.4.-D:
(1) See Sentence 4.1.8.4.(6).
(1)
Site Class
Table 4.1.8.4.-E
Values of F(2.0) as a Function of Site Class and PGAref Forming Part of Sentences 4.1.8.4.(4) and (5)
Values of F(2.0)
A 0.58
B 0.63
C 1.00
D 1.57
E 2.90
0.58 0.63 1.00 1.31 1.72
(1)
F
Notes to Table 4.1.8.4.-E:
(1) See Sentence 4.1.8.4.(6).
(1)
Site Class
Table 4.1.8.4.-F
Values of F(5.0) as a Function of Site Class and PGAref Forming Part of Sentences 4.1.8.4.(4) and (5)
Values of F(5.0)
A 0.61 B 0.64 C 1.00 D 1.58 E 2.93
F
Notes to Table 4.1.8.4.-F:
(1) See Sentence 4.1.8.4.(6).
(1)
4-50 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
PGAref ≤
0.1
PGAref =
0.57 0.63 1.00 1.39 2.08
(1)
0.2
PGAref =
0.57 0.63 1.00 1.31 1.74
(1)
0.3
PGAref =
0.4
PGAref ≥ 0.5
0.57 0.63 1.00 1.21 1.39
(1)
PGAref ≤
0.1
PGAref =
0.58 0.63 1.00 1.44 2.24
(1)
0.2
PGAref =
0.58 0.63 1.00 1.36 1.92
(1)
0.3
PGAref =
0.4
PGAref ≥ 0.5
0.58 0.63 1.00 1.27 1.58
(1)
PGAref ≤
0.1
PGAref =
0.61 0.64 1.00 1.48 2.40
(1)
0.2
PGAref =
0.61 0.64 1.00 1.41 2.14
(1)
0.3
PGAref =
0.61 0.64 1.00 1.37 1.96
(1)
0.4
PGAref ≥ 0.5
0.61 0.64 1.00 1.34 1.84
(1)
Table 4.1.8.4.-D
Values of F(1.0) as a Function of Site Class and PGAref Forming Part of Sentences 4.1.8.4.(4) and (5)
               © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
4.1.8.4.
Site Class
Values of F(10.0)
A 0.67
B 0.69
C 1.00
D 1.49
E 2.52
0.67 0.69 1.00 1.34 1.88
(1)
F
Notes to Table 4.1.8.4.-G:
(1) See Sentence 4.1.8.4.(6).
(1)
Site Class
Table 4.1.8.4.-H
Values of F(PGA) as a Function of Site Class and PGAref Forming Part of Sentences 4.1.8.4.(4) and (5)
Values of F(PGA)
A 0.90
B 0.87
C 1.00
D 1.29
E 1.81
0.90 0.87 1.00 0.93 0.83
(1)
F
Notes to Table 4.1.8.4.-H:
(1) See Sentence 4.1.8.4.(6).
(1)
Site Class
Table 4.1.8.4.-I
Values of F(PGV) as a Function of Site Class and PGAref Forming Part of Sentences 4.1.8.4.(4) and (5)
Values of F(PGV)
A 0.62
B 0.67
C 1.00
D 1.47
E 2.47
F
Notes to Table 4.1.8.4.-I:
(1) See Sentence 4.1.8.4.(6).
(1)
PGAref ≤
0.1
PGAref =
0.67 0.69 1.00 1.41 2.18
(1)
0.2
PGAref =
0.67 0.69 1.00 1.37 2.00
(1)
0.3
PGAref =
0.4
PGAref ≥ 0.5
0.67 0.69 1.00 1.31 1.79
(1)
PGAref ≤
0.1
PGAref =
0.90 0.87 1.00 1.10 1.23
(1)
0.2
PGAref =
0.90 0.87 1.00 0.99 0.98
(1)
0.3
PGAref =
0.4
PGAref ≥ 0.5
0.90 0.87 1.00 0.88 0.74
(1)
PGAref ≤
0.1
PGAref =
0.62 0.67 1.00 1.30 1.80
(1)
0.2
PGAref =
0.62 0.67 1.00 1.20 1.48
(1)
0.3
PGAref =
0.62 0.67 1.00 1.14 1.30
(1)
0.4
PGAref ≥ 0.5
0.62 0.67 1.00 1.10 1.17
(1)
Table 4.1.8.4.-G
Values of F(10.0) as a Function of Site Class and PGAref Forming Part of Sentences 4.1.8.4.(4) and (5)
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division B 4-51
               © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 4.1.8.5.
Division B
4.1.8.5.
Importance Factor
1) The earthquake importance factor, IE, shall be determined according to
Low
Normal
High Post-disaster
ULS
0.8 1.0 1.3 1.5
SLS(1)
(2)
Notes to Table 4.1.8.5.:
(1) See Article 4.1.8.13.
(2) See Note A-Table 4.1.8.5.
4.1.8.6.
Structural Configuration
1) Structures having any of the features listed in Table 4.1.8.6. shall be designated
Type
2
3
5
Table 4.1.8.6.
Structural Irregularities(1)(2) Forming Part of Sentence 4.1.8.6.(1)
Irregularity Type and Definition
Notes
(3)
(3) (4) (5)
(3) (4) (5)
4-52 Division B
Amended Page National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Table 4.1.8.5.
Importance Category
Table 4.1.8.5.
Importance Factor for Earthquake Loads and Effects, IE Forming Part of Sentence 4.1.8.5.(1)
irregular.
2) Structures not classified as irregular according to Sentence 4.1.8.6.(1) may be considered regular.
3) Except as required by Article 4.1.8.10., in cases where IEFaSa(0.2) is equal to or greater than 0.35, structures designated as irregular must satisfy the provisions referenced in Table 4.1.8.6.
Weight (mass) Irregularity
Weight irregularity shall be considered to exist where the weight, Wi, of any storey is more than 150% of the weight of an adjacent storey. A roof that is lighter than the floor below need not be considered.
Vertical Geometric Irregularity
Vertical geometric irregularity shall be considered to exist where the horizontal dimension of the SFRS in any storey is more than 130% of that in an adjacent storey.
Out-of-Plane Offsets
Discontinuities in a lateral force path, such as out-of-plane offsets of the vertical elements of the SFRS.
Importance Factor, IE
       1
Vertical Stiffness Irregularity
Vertical stiffness irregularity shall be considered to exist when the lateral stiffness of the SFRS in a storey is less than 70% of the stiffness of any adjacent storey, or less than 80% of the average stiffness of the three storeys above or below.
  (3) (4)
      4
In-Plane Discontinuity in Vertical Lateral-Force-Resisting Element
Except for braced frames and moment-resisting frames, an in-plane discontinuity shall be considered to exist where there is an offset of a lateral-force-resisting element of the SFRS or a reduction in lateral stiffness of the resisting element in the storey below.
  (3) (4) (5)
    6
Discontinuity in Capacity - Weak Storey
A weak storey is one in which the storey shear strength is less than that in the storey above. The storey shear strength is the total strength of all seismic-resisting elements of the SFRS sharing the storey shear for the direction under consideration.
  (3) (4)
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
4.1.8.8.
4.1.8.7.
Methods of Analysis
4.1.8.8.
1) Analysis for design earthquake actions shall be carried out in accordance with the Dynamic Analysis Procedure described in Article 4.1.8.12. (see Note A-4.1.8.7.(1)), except that the Equivalent Static Force Procedure described in Article 4.1.8.11. may be used for structures that meet any of the following criteria:
a) in cases where IEFaSa(0.2) is less than 0.35,
b) regular structures that are less than 60 m in height and have a fundamental
lateral period, Ta, less than 2 s in each of two orthogonal directions as
defined in Article 4.1.8.8., or
c) structures with structural irregularity, of Type 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 or 8 as defined
in Table 4.1.8.6., that are less than 20 m in height and have a fundamental lateral period, Ta, less than 0.5 s in each of two orthogonal directions as defined in Article 4.1.8.8.
Direction of Loading
1) Earthquake forces shall be assumed to act in any horizontal direction, except that the following shall be considered to provide adequate design force levels in the structure:
a) where components of the SFRS are oriented along a set of orthogonal axes, independent analyses about each of the principal axes of the structure shall be performed,
b) where the components of the SFRS are not oriented along a set of orthogonal axes and IEFaSa(0.2) is less than 0.35, independent analyses about any two orthogonal axes is permitted, or
c) where the components of the SFRS are not oriented along a set of orthogonal axes and IEFaSa(0.2) is equal to or greater than 0.35, analysis of the structure independently in any two orthogonal directions for 100% of the prescribed earthquake loads applied in one direction plus 30% of the prescribed earthquake loads in the perpendicular direction, with the combination requiring the greater element strength being used in the design.
Type
7
8
Table 4.1.8.6. (Continued)
Irregularity Type and Definition
Torsional Sensitivity (to be considered when diaphragms are not flexible)
Torsional sensitivity shall be considered to exist when the ratio B calculated according to Sentence 4.1.8.11.(10) exceeds 1.7.
Non-orthogonal Systems
A non-orthogonal system irregularity shall be considered to exist when the SFRS is not oriented along a set of orthogonal axes.
Notes
(3) (4) (6)
(3) (7)
Notes to Table 4.1.8.6.:
(1) One-storey penthouses with a weight of less than 10% of the level below need not be considered in the application of this Table.
(2) See Note A-Table 4.1.8.6.
(3) See Article 4.1.8.7.
(4) See Article 4.1.8.10.
(5) See Article 4.1.8.15.
(6) See Sentences 4.1.8.11.(10), (11) and 4.1.8.12.(4).
(7) See Article 4.1.8.8.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Amended Page Division B 4-53
     9
Gravity-Induced Lateral Demand Irregularity
Gravity-induced lateral demand irregularity on the SFRS shall be considered to exist where the ratio, α, calculated in accordance with Sentence 4.1.8.10.(5), exceeds 0.1 for an SFRS with self-centering characteristics and 0.03 for other systems.
  (3) (4) (7)
  © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 4.1.8.9.
Division B
4.1.8.9.
SFRS Force Reduction Factors, System Overstrength Factors, and General Restrictions
1) Except as provided in Sentence 4.1.8.20.(7), the values of Rd and Ro and the corresponding system restrictions shall conform to Table 4.1.8.9. and the requirements of this Subsection.
2) When a particular value of Rd is required by this Article, the corresponding Ro shall be used.
3) For combinations of different types of SFRS acting in the same direction in the same storey, RdRo shall be taken as the lowest value of RdRo corresponding to these systems.
4) For vertical variations of RdRo, excluding rooftop structures not exceeding two storeys in height whose weight is less than the greater of 10% of W and 30% of Wi of the level below, the value of RdRo used in the design of any storey shall be less than or equal to the lowest value of RdRo used in the given direction for the storeys above, and the requirements of Sentence 4.1.8.15.(6) must be satisfied. (See Note A-4.1.8.9.(4).)
5) If it can be demonstrated through testing, research and analysis that the seismic performance of a structural system is at least equivalent to one of the types of SFRS mentioned in Table 4.1.8.9., then such a structural system will qualify for values of Rd and Ro corresponding to the equivalent type in that Table. (See Note A-4.1.8.9.(5).)
Table 4.1.8.9.
SFRS Ductility-Related Force Modification Factors, Rd, Overstrength-Related Force Modification Factors, Ro, and General Restrictions(1)
Forming Part of Sentences 4.1.8.9.(1) and (5)
Type of SFRS
Rd Ro
Restrictions(2) Cases Where IEFaSa(0.2)
Cases
Where IEFvSa(1.0)
> 0.3
NL NL 30
40 20
60 40 40 NL NL 60
15 40 NP
Ductile moment-resisting frames
Moderately ductile moment-resisting frames Limited ductility moment-resisting frames Moderately ductile concentrically braced frames
Tension-compression braces
Tension only braces
Limited ductility concentrically braced frames
Tension-compression braces
Tension only braces
Ductile buckling-restrained braced frames
Ductile eccentrically braced frames
Ductile plate walls
Limited ductility plate walls
Conventional construction of moment-resisting frames, braced frames or plate walls
Assembly occupancies
Other occupancies
Other steel SFRS(s) not defined above
5.0 1.5 3.5 1.5 2.0 1.3
3.0 1.3 3.0 1.3
2.0 1.3 2.0 1.3 4.0 1.2 4.0 1.5 5.0 1.6 2.0 1.5
1.5 1.3 1.5 1.3 1.0 1.0
NL NL NL
NL NL
NL NL NL NL NL NL
NL NL 15
NL NL NL
NL NL
NL NL NL NL NL NL
NL NL 15
4-54 Division B Amended Page
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Steel Structures Designed and Detailed According to CSA S16(3)(4)
< 0.2
≥ 0.2 to < 0.35
≥ 0.35 to ≤ 0.75
NL NL 60
40 20
60 40 40 NL NL 60
15 60 NP
> 0.75
NL NL 30
40 20
60 40 40 NL NL 60
15 40 NP
                © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
4.1.8.9.
Type of SFRS
Restrictions(2) Cases Where IEFaSa(0.2)
Cases
Where IEFvSa(1.0)
> 0.3
NL 40 NL 60 NL 60 NL 60
10(5)
30 NP
25 20(6)
NP NP
20 20
20 15
NP
40 40
15 NP NP NP
Ductile moment-resisting frames Moderately ductile moment-resisting frames Ductile coupled walls
Moderately ductile coupled walls
Ductile partially coupled walls
Moderately ductile partially coupled walls Ductile shear walls
Moderately ductile shear walls Conventional construction
Moment-resisting frames Shear walls
Two-way slabs without beams
Tilt-up construction
Moderately ductile walls and frames Limited ductility walls and frames Conventional walls and frames
Other concrete SFRS(s) not listed above
Timber Structures
4.0 1.7 NL 2.5 1.4 NL 4.0 1.7 NL 2.5 1.4 NL 3.5 1.7 NL 2.0 1.4 NL 3.5 1.6 NL 2.0 1.4 NL
1.5 1.3 NL 1.5 1.3 NL 1.3 1.3 20
2.0 1.3 30
1.5 1.3 30
1.3 1.3 25
1.0 1.0 15
Designed and Detailed According to CSA O86
Shear walls
Nailed shear walls: wood-based panel 3.0
Shear walls: wood-based and gypsum panels in 2.0 combination
Braced or moment-resisting frames with ductile connections
Moderately ductile 2.0
Limited ductility 1.5 Other wood- or gypsum-based SFRS(s) not listed
1.7 NL 1.7 NL
1.5 NL 1.5 NL
NL NL
NL NL
above
Ductile shear walls Moderately ductile shear walls Conventional construction
Shear walls
Moment-resisting frames Unreinforced masonry
Other masonry SFRS(s) not listed above
Table 4.1.8.9. (Continued)
Rd Ro
< 0.2
Concrete Structures Designed and Detailed According to CSA A23.3
1.0 1.0 15
Masonry Structures Designed and Detailed According to CSA S304
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Amended Page
Division B 4-55
3.0 1.5 2.0 1.5
1.5 1.5 1.5 1.5 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0
NL NL
NL NL 30 15
15
NL NL
60 30 15 NP
≥ 0.2 to < 0.35
≥ 0.35 to ≤ 0.75
NL 60 NL NL NL NL NL NL
20 40 NP
25 20 NP NP
30 20
20 15
NP
60 60
30 NP NP NP
> 0.75
NL 40 NL 60 NL 60 NL 60
15 30 NP
25 20 NP NP
20 20
20 15
NP
40 40
15 NP NP NP
NL NL NL NL NL NL NL NL
NL NL 15
25 25 20 15
                          © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 4.1.8.10.
Division B
Shear walls
Type of SFRS
Restrictions(2) Cases Where IEFaSa(0.2)
≥ 0.2 to < ≥ 0.35 to 0.35 ≤ 0.75
Cases
Where IEFvSa(1.0)
> 0.3
Screw-connected shear walls – wood-based panels
Screw-connected shear walls – wood-based and gypsum panels in combination
Diagonal strap concentrically braced walls Limited ductility
Conventional construction
Other cold-formed SFRS(s) not defined above
Notes to Table 4.1.8.9.:
(1) See Article 4.1.8.10.
(2) NP = system is not permitted.
2.5 1.7 20 20 1.5 1.7 20 20
1.9 1.3 20 20 1.2 1.3 15 15 1.0 1.0 15 15
20 20 20 20 20 20
20 20 20 NP NP NP NP NP NP
Table 4.1.8.9. (Continued)
Rd Ro
< 0.2
Cold-Formed Steel Structures Designed and Detailed According to CSA S136
NL = system is permitted and not limited in height as an SFRS. Numbers in this Table are maximum height limits above grade, in m. Height may be limited in other Parts of the Code.
The most stringent requirement governs.
(3) Higher design force levels are prescribed in CSA S16 for some heights of buildings.
(4) See Note A-Table 4.1.8.9.
(5) Frames limited to a maximum of 2 storeys.
(6) Frames limited to a maximum of 3 storeys.
4.1.8.10.
Additional System Restrictions
4-56 Division B
Amended Page National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
1) Except as required by Clause (2)(b), structures with a Type 6 irregularity, Discontinuity in Capacity - Weak Storey, as described in Table 4.1.8.6., are not permitted unless IEFaSa(0.2) is less than 0.2 and the forces used for design of the SFRS are multiplied by RdRo.
2) Post-disaster buildings shall
a) not have any irregularities conforming to Types 1, 3, 4, 5, 7 and 9 as described
in Table 4.1.8.6., in cases where IEFaSa(0.2) is equal to or greater than 0.35,
b) not have a Type 6 irregularity as described in Table 4.1.8.6.,
c) have an SFRS with an Rd of 2.0 or greater, and
d) have no storey with a lateral stiffness that is less than that of the storey above
it.
3) For buildings having fundamental lateral periods, Ta, of 1.0 s or greater, and where IEFvSa(1.0) is greater than 0.25, shear walls that are other than wood-based and form part of the SFRS shall be continuous from their top to the foundation and shall not have irregularities of Type 4 or 5 as described in Table 4.1.8.6.
4) For buildings constructed with more than 4 storeys of continuous wood construction and where IEFaSa(0.2) is equal to or greater than 0.35, timber SFRS consisting of shear walls with wood-based panels or of braced or moment-resisting frames as defined in Table 4.1.8.9. within the continuous wood construction
shall not have Type 4 or Type 5 irregularities as described in Table 4.1.8.6. (See Note A-4.1.8.10.(4).)
> 0.75
        © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 4.1.8.11.
4.1.8.11.
(See Note A-4.1.8.10.(5).)
6) For buildings with a Type 9 irregularity as described in Table 4.1.8.6. and where IEFaSa(0.2) is equal to or greater than 0.5, deflections determined in accordance with Article 4.1.8.13. shall be multiplied by 1.2.
7) Structures where the value of α, as determined in accordance with Sentence (5), exceeds twice the limits specified in Table 4.1.8.6. for a Type 9 irregularity, and where IEFaSa(0.2) is equal to or greater than 0.5 are not permitted unless determined to be acceptable based on non-linear dynamic analysis studies. (See Note A-4.1.8.10.(7).)
Equivalent Static Force Procedure for Structures Satisfying the Conditions of Article 4.1.8.7.
1) The static loading due to earthquake motion shall be determined according to the procedures given in this Article.
2) Except as provided in Sentence (12), the minimum lateral earthquake force, V, shall be calculated using the following formula:
except
a) for walls, coupled walls and wall-frame systems, V shall not be less than
b) for moment-resisting frames, braced frames, and other systems, V shall not be less than
c) for buildings located on a site other than Class F and having an SFRS with an Rd equal to or greater than 1.5, V need not be greater than the larger of
3) Except as provided in Sentence (4), the fundamental lateral period, Ta, in the direction under consideration in Sentence (2), shall be determined as:
a) for moment-resisting frames that resist 100% of the required lateral forces and where the frame is not enclosed by or adjoined by more rigid elements that would tend to prevent the frame from resisting lateral forces, and where hn is in metres:
i) 0.085 (hn)3/4 for steel moment frames,
5) The ratio, α, for a Type 9 irregularity as described in Table 4.1.8.6. shall be determined independently for each orthogonal direction using the following equation:
where QG
Qy
= gravity-induced lateral demand on the SFRS at the critical level of the yielding system, and
= the resistance of the yielding mechanism required to resist the minimum earthquake loads, which need not be taken as less than Ro multiplied by the minimum lateral earthquake force as determined in Article 4.1.8.11. or 4.1.8.12., as appropriate.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 4-57
  © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 4.1.8.11.
Division B
4-58 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
ii) 0.075 (hn)3/4 for concrete moment frames, or iii) 0.1Nforothermomentframes,
b) 0.025hn for braced frames where hn is in metres,
c) 0.05 (hn)3/4 for shear wall and other structures where hn is in metres, or
d) other established methods of mechanics using a structural model that complies with the requirements of Sentence 4.1.8.3.(8), except that
i) for moment-resisting frames, Ta shall not be taken greater
than 1.5 times that determined in Clause (a),
ii) for braced frames, Ta shall not be taken greater than 2.0
times that determined in Clause (b),
iii) for shear wall structures, Ta shall not be taken greater than
2.0 times that determined in Clause (c),
iv) for other structures, Ta shall not be taken greater than that
determined in Clause (c), and
v) for the purpose of calculating the deflections, the period
without the upper limit specified in Subclauses (d)(i)
to (d)(iv) may be used, except that, for walls, coupled walls and wall-frame systems, Ta shall not exceed 4.0 s, and for moment-resisting frames, braced frames, and other systems, Ta shall not exceed 2.0 s.
(See Note A-4.1.8.11.(3).)
4) For single-storey buildings with steel deck or wood roof diaphragms, the fundamental lateral period, Ta, in the direction under consideration is permitted to be taken as
a) 0.05 (hn)3/4 + 0.004 L for shear walls,
b) 0.035 hn + 0.004 L for steel moment frames and steel braced frames, or
c) the value obtained from methods of mechanics using a structural model that complies with the requirements of Sentence 4.1.8.3.(8), except that Ta shall not be greater than 1.5 times the value determined in Clause (a) or (b), as applicable,
where L is the shortest length of the diaphragm, in m, between adjacent vertical elements of the SFRS in the direction perpendicular to the direction under consideration.
5) The weight, W, of the building shall be calculated using the following formula:
6) The higher mode factor, Mv, and its associated base overturning moment
reduction factor, J, shall conform to Table 4.1.8.11.
7) The total lateral seismic force, V, shall be distributed such that a portion, Ft, shall be assumed to be concentrated at the top of the building, where Ft is equal to 0.07 TaV but need not exceed 0.25 V and may be considered as zero where the fundamental lateral period, Ta, does not exceed 0.7 s; the remainder, V - Ft, shall be distributed along the height of the building, including the top level, in accordance with the following formula:
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
4.1.8.11.
S(0.2)/S(5.0)
Mv forTa ≤0.5
Mv forTa =1.0
1 1 1 1
1 1 1 1
1 1 1 1.04
1
1 1.19 1.55
Mv forTa =2.0 Mv forTa ≥5.0 JforTa ≤0.5
JforTa =1.0
0.97 0.93 0.87 0.80
0.97 0.93 0.87 0.80
0.95 0.85 0.79 0.71
0.97 0.80 0.63 0.51
0.97 0.80 0.63 0.51
JforTa =2.0
JforTa ≥5.0
5 1 20 1 40 1 65 1
5 1 20 1 40 1 65 1
5 1 20 1 40 1 65 1
5 1 20 1 40 1 65 1
5 1 20 1 40 1 65 1
Notes to Table 4.1.8.11.:
(1) For intermediate values of
(2) For intermediate values of accordance with Note (1).
(3) For intermediate values of accordance with Note (1).
Moment-Resisting Frames 1 (5)
1 (5) 1 (5)
1.03 (5)
Coupled Walls(6) 1 1(7)
1 1 1 1
1 1 1 1
1 1 1 1
1 1 1 1
0.92 (5) 0.85 (5) 0.78 (5) 0.70 (5)
Table 4.1.8.11.
Higher Mode Factor, Mv, and Base Overturning Moment Reduction Factor, J(1)(2)(3)(4) Forming Part of Sentence 4.1.8.11.(6)
1
1 1.03
1 1 1 1.07
1 1.18 1.75 2.25
1.08(7) 1.30(7) 1.49(7)
Braced Frames (5)
(5) (5) (5)
Walls, Wall Frame Systems 1.25(7)
2.30(7) 3.70(7) 4.65(7)
0.92 0.85 0.78 0.70
0.80(8) 0.65(8) 0.53(8) 0.46(8)
Other Systems 1 1 (5)
0.85 (5) 0.60 (5) 0.46 (5) 0.39 (5)
1 1.18 1.19 1.75 1.55 2.25
1 (5) 1
(5) 1 (5) 1
the spectral ratio S(0.2)/S(5.0), Mv and J shall be obtained by linear interpolation.
the fundamental lateral period, Ta, S(Ta)Mv shall be obtained by linear interpolation using the values of Mv obtained in
the fundamental lateral period, Ta, J shall be obtained by linear interpolation using the values of J obtained in
(4) For a combination of different seismic force resisting systems (SFRS) not given in Table 4.1.8.11. that are in the same direction under consideration, use the highest Mv factor of all the SFRS and the corresponding value of J.
(5) For fundamental lateral periods, Ta , greater than 2.0 s, use the 2.0 s values obtained in accordance with Note (1). See Clause 4.1.8.11.(2)(b).
(6) A “coupled” wall is a wall system with coupling beams, where at least 66% of the base overturning moment resisted by the wall system is carried by
the axial tension and compression forces resulting from shear in the coupling beams.
(7) For fundamental lateral periods, Ta, greater than 4.0 s, use the 4.0 s values of S(Ta)Mv obtained by interpolation between 2.0 s and 5.0 s using the
value of Mv obtained in accordance with Note (1). See Clause 4.1.8.11.(2)(a).
(8) For fundamental lateral periods, Ta, greater than 4.0 s, use the 4.0 s values of J obtained by interpolation between 2.0 s and 5.0 s using the value
of J obtained in accordance with Note (1). See Clause 4.1.8.11.(2)(a).
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 4-59
0.89 (5) 0.78 (5) 0.70 (5) 0.66 (5)
0.85 0.60 0.46 0.39
0.55(8) 0.35(8) 0.28(8) 0.23(8)
             © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 4.1.8.11.
Division B
4-60 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
8) The structure shall be designed to resist overturning effects caused by the earthquake forces determined in Sentence (7) and the overturning moment at level x, Mx, shall be determined using the following equation:
where
Jx = 1.0 for hx ≥ 0.6hn, and
Jx =J+(1-J)(hx /0.6hn)forhx <0.6hn where
J =baseoverturningmomentreductionfactorconformingtoTable4.1.8.11.
Torsional effects that are concurrent with the effects of the forces mentioned in Sentence (7) and are caused by the simultaneous actions of the following torsional moments shall be considered in the design of the structure according to Sentence (11):
a) torsional moments introduced by eccentricity between the centres of mass and resistance and their dynamic amplification, and
b) torsional moments due to accidental eccentricities.
10) Torsional sensitivity shall be determined by calculating the ratio Bx for each level x according to the following equation for each orthogonal direction determined independently:
where
B = maximum of all values of Bx in both orthogonal directions, except that the
Bx for one-storey penthouses with a weight less than 10% of the level below
need not be considered,
δmax = maximum storey displacement at the extreme points of the structure, at level
x in the direction of the earthquake induced by the equivalent static forces
acting at distances ± 0.10 Dnx from the centres of mass at each floor, and δave = average of the displacements at the extreme points of the structure at level x
produced by the above-mentioned forces.
11) Torsional effects shall be accounted for as follows:
a) for a building with B ≤ 1.7 or where IEFaSa(0.2) is less than 0.35, by applying
torsional moments about a vertical axis at each level throughout the building, derived for each of the following load cases considered separately:
i) Tx = Fx(ex + 0.10 Dnx), and ii) Tx = Fx(ex - 0.10 Dnx)
where Fx is the lateral force at each level determined according to Sentence (7) and where each element of the building is designed for the most severe effect of the above load cases, or
b) for a building with B > 1.7, in cases where IEFaSa(0.2) is equal to or greater than 0.35, by a Dynamic Analysis Procedure as specified in Article 4.1.8.12.
12) Where the fundamental lateral period, Ta, is determined in accordance with Clause (3)(d) and the building is constructed with more than 4 storeys of continuous wood construction and has a timber SFRS consisting of shear walls with wood-based panels or of braced or moment-resisting frames as defined in Table 4.1.8.9., the lateral earthquake force, V, as determined in accordance with Sentence (2) shall be multiplied by 1.2 but need not exceed the value determined by using Clause (2)(c). (See Note A-4.1.8.10.(4).)
9)
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 4.1.8.12.
4.1.8.12.
Dynamic Analysis Procedure
1) Except as provided in Articles 4.1.8.19. and 4.1.8.21., the Dynamic Analysis Procedure shall be in accordance with one of the following methods:
a) Linear Dynamic Analysis by either the Modal Response Spectrum Method or the Numerical Integration Linear Time History Method using a structural model that complies with the requirements of Sentence 4.1.8.3.(8) (see
Note A-4.1.8.12.(1)(a)), or
b) Non-linear Dynamic Analysis, in which case a special study shall be performed (see Note A-4.1.8.12.(1)(b)).
2) The spectral acceleration values used in the Modal Response Spectrum Method shall be the design spectral acceleration values, S(T), defined in Sentence 4.1.8.4.(9).
3) The ground motion histories used in the Numerical Integration Linear Time History Method shall be compatible with a response spectrum constructed from the design spectral acceleration values, S(T), defined in Sentence 4.1.8.4.(9). (See Note A-4.1.8.12.(3).)
4) The effects of accidental torsional moments acting concurrently with the lateral earthquake forces that cause them shall be accounted for by the following methods:
a) the static effects of torsional moments due to (± 0.10 Dnx)Fx at each level x, where Fx is either determined from the elastic dynamic analysis
or determined from Sentence 4.1.8.11.(7) multiplied by RdRo/IE, shall be combined with the effects determined by dynamic analysis (see Note A-4.1.8.12.(4)(a)), or
b) if B, as defined in Sentence 4.1.8.11.(10), is less than 1.7, it is permitted to use a three-dimensional dynamic analysis with the centres of mass shifted by a distance of –0.05 Dnx and + 0.05 Dnx.
5) Except as provided in Sentence (6), the design elastic base shear, Ved, shall be equal to the elastic base shear, Ve, obtained from a Linear Dynamic Analysis.
6) For structures located on sites other than Class F that have an SFRS with Rd equal to or greater than 1.5, the elastic base shear obtained from a Linear Dynamic Analysis may be multiplied by the larger of the following factors to obtain the design elastic base shear, Ved:
7) The design elastic base shear, Ved, shall be multiplied by the importance factor, IE, as determined in Article 4.1.8.5., and shall be divided by RdRo, as determined in Article 4.1.8.9., to obtain the design base shear, Vd.
8) Except as required by Sentence (9) or (12), if the base shear, Vd, obtained in Sentence (7) is less than 80% of the lateral earthquake design force, V, of Article 4.1.8.11., Vd shall be taken as 0.8 V.
9) For irregular structures requiring dynamic analysis in accordance with Article 4.1.8.7., Vd shall be taken as the larger of the Vd determined in Sentence (7) and 100% of V.
10) Except as required by Sentence (11), the values of elastic storey shears, storey forces, member forces, and deflections obtained from the Linear Dynamic Analysis, including the effect of accidental torsion determined in Sentence (4), shall be multiplied by Vd/Ve to determine their design values, where Vd is the base shear.
11) For the purpose of calculating deflections, it is permitted to use a value for V based on the value for Ta determined in Clause 4.1.8.11.(3)(d) to obtain Vd in Sentences (8) and (9).
12) For buildings constructed with more than 4 storeys of continuous wood construction, having a timber SFRS consisting of shear walls with wood-based panels or braced or moment-resisting frames as defined in Table 4.1.8.9., and whose
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 4-61
  © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 4.1.8.13.
Division B
4.1.8.13.
fundamental lateral period, Ta, is determined in accordance with Clause 4.1.8.11.(3)(d), the design base shear, Vd, shall be taken as the larger value of Vd determined in accordance with Sentence (7) and 100% of V. (See Note A-4.1.8.10.(4).)
Deflections and Drift Limits
1) Except as provided in Sentences (5) and (6), lateral deflections of a structure shall be calculated in accordance with the loads and requirements defined in this Subsection.
2) Lateral deflections obtained from a linear elastic analysis using the methods given in Articles 4.1.8.11. and 4.1.8.12. and incorporating the effects of torsion, including accidental torsional moments, shall be multiplied by RdRo/IE and increased as required in Sentences 4.1.8.10.(6) and 4.1.8.16.(1) to give realistic values of anticipated deflections.
3) Based on the lateral deflections calculated in Sentences (2), (5) and (6), the largest interstorey deflection at any level shall be limited to 0.01 hs for post-disaster buildings, 0.02 hs for High Importance Category buildings, and 0.025 hs for all other buildings.
4) The deflections calculated in Sentence (2) shall be used to account for sway effects as required by Sentence 4.1.3.2.(12). (See Note A-4.1.8.13.(4).)
5) The lateral deflections of a seismically isolated structure shall be calculated in accordance with Article 4.1.8.20.
6) The lateral deflections of a structure with supplemental energy dissipation shall be calculated in accordance with Article 4.1.8.22.
Structural Separation
1) Adjacent structures shall be
a) separated by a distance equal to at least the square root of the sum of the
squares of their individual deflections calculated in Sentence 4.1.8.13.(2), or
b) connected to each other.
2) The method of connection required in Sentence (1) shall take into account the mass, stiffness, strength, ductility and anticipated motion of the connected buildings and the character of the connection.
3) Rigidly connected buildings shall be assumed to have the lowest RdRo value of the buildings connected.
4) Buildings with non-rigid or energy-dissipating connections require special studies.
Design Provisions
1) Except as provided in Sentences (2) and (3), diaphragms, collectors, chords, struts and connections shall be designed so as not to yield, and the design shall account for the shape of the diaphragm, including openings, and for the forces generated in the diaphragm due to the following cases, whichever one governs (see Note A-4.1.8.15.(1)):
a) forces due to loads determined in Article 4.1.8.11. or 4.1.8.12. applied to the diaphragm are increased to reflect the lateral load capacity of the SFRS, plus forces in the diaphragm due to the transfer of forces between elements of the SFRS associated with the lateral load capacity of such elements and accounting for discontinuities and changes in stiffness in these elements, or
b) a minimum force corresponding to the design-based shear divided by N for the diaphragm at level x.
2) Steel deck roof diaphragms in buildings of less than 4 storeys or wood diaphragms that are designed and detailed according to the applicable referenced design standards to exhibit ductile behaviour shall meet the requirements of Sentence (1), except that they may yield and the forces shall be
a) for wood diaphragms acting in combination with vertical wood shear walls, equal to the lateral earthquake design force,
4.1.8.14.
4.1.8.15.
4-62 Division B
Amended Page National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
4.1.8.16.
4.1.8.16.
b) c)
for wood diaphragms acting in combination with other SFRS, not less than the force corresponding to RdRo = 2.0, and
for steel deck roof diaphragms, not less than the force corresponding to RdRo = 2.0.
Where diaphragms are designed in accordance with Sentence (2), the struts shall be designed in accordance with Clause 4.1.8.15.(1)(a) and the collectors, chords and connections between the diaphragms and the vertical elements of the SFRS shall be designed for forces corresponding to the capacity of the diaphragms in accordance with the applicable CSA standards. (See Note A-4.1.8.15.(3).)
4) For single-storey buildings with steel deck or wood roof diaphragms designed with a value of Rd greater than 1.5 and where the calculated maximum relative deflection, ΔD, of the diaphragm under lateral loads exceeds 50% of the average storey drift, ΔB, of the adjoining vertical elements of the SFRS, dynamic magnification of the inelastic response due to the in-plane diaphragm deformations shall be accounted for in the design as follows:
a) the vertical elements of the SFRS shall be designed and detailed to any one of the following:
i) to accommodate the anticipated magnified lateral deformations taken as RoRd (ΔB +ΔD) - RoΔD,
ii) to resist the forces magnified by Rd(1 + ΔD/ΔB)/(Rd + ΔD/ΔB), or
iii) by a special study, and
b) the roof diaphragm and chords shall be designed for in-plane shears and
moments determined while taking into consideration the inelastic higher
mode response of the structure.
(See Note A-4.1.8.15.(4).)
5) In cases where IEFaSa(0.2) is equal to or greater than 0.35, the elements supporting any discontinuous wall, column or braced frame shall be designed for the lateral load capacity of the components of the SFRS they support. (See Note A-4.1.8.15.(5).)
6) Where structures have vertical variations of RdRo satisfying Sentence 4.1.8.9.(4), the elements of the SFRS below the level where the change in RdRo occurs shall be designed for the forces associated with the lateral load capacity of the SFRS above that level. (See Note A-4.1.8.15.(6).)
7) Where earthquake effects can produce forces in a column or wall due to lateral loading along both orthogonal axes, account shall be taken of the effects of potential concurrent yielding of other elements framing into the column or wall from all directions at the level under consideration and as appropriate at other levels. (See Note A-4.1.8.15.(7).)
8) The design forces associated with the lateral capacity of the SFRS need not exceed the forces determined in accordance with Sentence 4.1.8.7.(1) with RdRo taken as 1.0, unless otherwise provided by the applicable referenced design standards for elements, in which case the design forces associated with the lateral capacity of the SFRS need not exceed the forces determined in accordance with Sentence 4.1.8.7.(1) with RdRo taken as less than or equal to 1.3. (See Note A-4.1.8.15.(8).)
9) Foundations need not be designed to resist the lateral load overturning capacity of the SFRS, provided the design and the Rd and Ro for the type of SFRS used conform to Table 4.1.8.9. and that the foundation is designed in accordance with Sentence 4.1.8.16.(4).
10) Foundation displacements and rotations shall be considered as required by Sentence 4.1.8.16.(1).
Foundation Provisions
1) The increased displacements of the structure resulting from foundation movement shall be shown to be within acceptable limits for both the SFRS and the structural framing elements not considered to be part of the SFRS. (See Note A-4.1.8.16.(1).)
3)
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division B 4-63
   © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 4.1.8.17.
Division B
4.1.8.17.
2) Except as provided in Sentences (3) and (4), foundations shall be designed to have factored shear and overturning resistances greater than the lateral load capacity of the SFRS. (See Note A-4.1.8.16.(2).)
3) The shear and overturning resistances of the foundation determined using a bearing stress equal to 1.5 times the factored bearing strength of the soil or rock and all other resistances equal to 1.3 times the factored resistances need not exceed the design forces determined in Sentence 4.1.8.7.(1) using RdRo = 1.0, except that the factor of
1.3 shall not apply to the portion of the resistance to uplift or overturning resulting from gravity loads.
4) A foundation is permitted to have a factored overturning resistance less than the lateral load overturning capacity of the supported SFRS, provided the following requirements are met:
a) neither the foundation nor the supported SFRS are constrained against rotation, and
b) the design overturning moment of the foundation is
i) not less than 75% of the overturning capacity of the
supported SFRS, and
ii) not less than that determined in Sentence 4.1.8.7.(1) using
RdRo = 2.0.
(See Note A-4.1.8.16.(4).)
5) The design of foundations shall be such that they are capable of transferring earthquake loads and effects between the building and the ground without exceeding the capacities of the soil and rock.
6) In cases where IEFaSa(0.2) is equal to or greater than 0.35, the following requirements shall be satisfied:
a) piles or pile caps, drilled piers, and caissons shall be interconnected by continuous ties in not less than two directions (see Note A-4.1.8.16.(6)(a)),
b) piles, drilled piers, and caissons shall be embedded a minimum of 100 mm
into the pile cap or structure, and
c) piles, drilled piers, and caissons, other than wood piles, shall be connected to
the pile cap or structure for a minimum tension force equal to 0.15 times the factored compression load on the pile.
7) At sites where IEFaSa(0.2) is equal to or greater than 0.35, basement walls shall be designed to resist earthquake lateral pressures from backfill or natural ground. (See Note A-4.1.8.16.(7).)
8) At sites where IEFaSa(0.2) is greater than 0.75, the following requirements shall be satisfied:
a) piles, drilled piers, or caissons shall be designed and detailed to accommodate cyclic inelastic behaviour when the design moment in the element due
to earthquake effects is greater than 75% of its moment capacity (see
Note A-4.1.8.16.(8)(a)), and
b) spread footings founded on soil defined as Site Class E or F shall be interconnected by continuous ties in not less than two directions.
9) Each segment of a tie between elements that is required by Clauses (6)(a)
or (8)(b) shall be designed to carry by tension or compression a horizontal force at least equal to the greatest factored pile cap or column vertical load in the elements it connects, multiplied by a factor of 0.10 IEFaSa(0.2), unless it can be demonstrated that equivalent restraints can be provided by other means. (See Note A-4.1.8.16.(9).)
10) The potential for liquefaction of the soil and its consequences, such as significant ground displacement and loss of soil strength and stiffness, shall be evaluated based on the ground motion parameters referenced in Subsection 1.1.3., as modified by Article 4.1.8.4., and shall be taken into account in the design of the structure and its foundations. (See Note A-4.1.8.16.(10).)
Site Stability
1) The potential for slope instability and its consequences, such as slope
displacement, shall be evaluated based on site-specific material properties and ground
4-64 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 4.1.8.18.
4.1.8.18.
motion parameters referenced in Subsection 1.1.3., as modified by Article 4.1.8.4., and shall be taken into account in the design of the structure and its foundations. (See Note A-4.1.8.17.(1).)
Elements of Structures, Non-structural Components and Equipment
(See Note A-4.1.8.18.)
1) Except as provided in Sentences (2), (7) and (16), elements and components
of buildings described in Table 4.1.8.18. and their connections to the structure shall
be designed to accommodate the building deflections calculated in accordance with Article 4.1.8.13. and the element or component deflections calculated in accordance with Sentence (9), and shall be designed for a lateral force, Vp, distributed according to the distribution of mass:
where
Fa = as defined in Sentence 4.1.8.4.(7),
Sa(0.2) =spectralresponseaccelerationvalueat0.2s,asdefinedinSentence4.1.8.4.(1), IE = importance factor for the building, as defined in Article 4.1.8.5.,
Sp = CpArAx/Rp (the maximum value of Sp shall be taken as 4.0 and the minimum value of Sp shall be taken as 0.7), where
Cp = element or component factor from Table 4.1.8.18.,
Ar = element or component force amplification factor from Table 4.1.8.18.,
Ax =heightfactor(1+2hx /hn),
Rp = element or component response modification factor from Table 4.1.8.18.,
Category
and
Wp = weight of the component or element.
Table 4.1.8.18.
Elements of Structures and Non-structural Components and Equipment(1) Forming Part of Sentences 4.1.8.18.(1), (2), (3), (6) and (7)
Part or Portion of Building
Cp Ar Rp
1.00 1.00 2.50 1.00 2.50 2.50 1.00 2.50 2.50 - - - 1.00 2.50 2.50 1.00 1.00 2.50 1.00 1.00 2.50 1.00 1.00 1.50 1.00 1.00 2.50 1.00 1.00 2.50
1.00 1.00 1.25 1.00 2.50 2.50
1.50 1.00 1.25 1.50 2.50 2.50 0.70 1.00 2.50 1.00 1.00 2.50
1.00 1.00 3.00
1 All exterior and interior walls except those in Category 2 or 3
2 Cantilever parapet and other cantilever walls except retaining walls
3 Exterior and interior ornamentations and appendages
4 Floors and roofs acting as diaphragms(2)
5 Towers, chimneys, smokestacks and penthouses when connected to or forming part of a building
6 Horizontally cantilevered floors, balconies, beams, etc.
7 Suspended ceilings, light fixtures and other attachments to ceilings with independent vertical support
8 Masonry veneer connections
9 Access floors
10 Masonry or concrete fences more than 1.8 m tall
11 Machinery, fixtures, equipment and tanks (including contents)
that are rigid and rigidly connected
that are flexible or flexibly connected
12 Machinery, fixtures, equipment and tanks (including contents) containing toxic or explosive materials,
materials having a flash point below 38°C or firefighting fluids that are rigid and rigidly connected
that are flexible or flexibly connected
13 Flat bottom tanks (including contents) attached directly to a floor at or below grade within a building
14 Flat bottom tanks (including contents) attached directly to a floor at or below grade within a building
containing toxic or explosive materials, materials having a flash point below 38°C or firefighting fluids
15 Pipes, ducts (including contents)
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division B 4-65
   © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 4.1.8.18.
Division B
Category
Table 4.1.8.18. (Continued)
Part or Portion of Building
Cp Ar Rp
1.50 1.00 3.00 1.00 2.50 5.00 1.00 1.00 2.50 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 2.50 2.50 1.00 2.50 1.00
as per category 11 1.00 1.00 2.50 1.00 2.50 2.50 1.50 2.50 2.50
16 Pipes, ducts (including contents) containing toxic or explosive materials
17 Electrical cable trays, bus ducts, conduits
18 Rigid components with ductile material and connections
19 Rigid components with non-ductile material or connections
20 Flexible components with ductile material and connections
21 Flexible components with non-ductile material or connections
22 Elevators and escalators(3)
machinery and equipment
elevator rails
23 Floor-mounted steel pallet storage racks(4)
24 Floor-mounted steel pallet storage racks on which are stored toxic or explosive materials or materials having a flash point below 38°C(4).
Notes to Table 4.1.8.18.:
(1) See Note A-Table 4.1.8.18.
(2) See Sentence (8).
(3) See also ASME A17.1/CSA B44, “Safety Code for Elevators and Escalators.”
(4) See Sentence (13) and Note A-Table 4.1.8.18.
4-66 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
2) For buildings other than post-disaster buildings, seismically isolated buildings, and buildings with supplemental energy dissipation systems, where IEFaSa(0.2) is less than 0.35, the requirements of Sentence (1) need not apply to Categories 6 through 22 of Table 4.1.8.18.
3) For the purpose of applying Sentence (1) for Categories 11 and 12 of
Table 4.1.8.18., elements or components shall be assumed to be flexible or flexibly connected unless it can be shown that the fundamental period of the element or component and its connection is less than or equal to 0.06 s, in which case the element or component is classified as being rigid or rigidly connected.
4) The weight of access floors shall include the dead load of the access floor and the weight of permanent equipment, which shall not be taken as less than 25% of the floor live load.
5) When the mass of a tank plus its contents or the mass of a flexible or flexibly connected piece of machinery, fixture or equipment is greater than 10% of the mass of the supporting floor, the lateral forces shall be determined by rational analysis.
6) Forces shall be applied in the horizontal direction that results in the most critical loading for design, except for Category 6 of Table 4.1.8.18., where the forces shall be applied up and down vertically.
7) Connections to the structure of elements and components listed in
Table 4.1.8.18. shall be designed to support the component or element for gravity loads, shall conform to the requirements of Sentence (1), and shall also satisfy these additional requirements:
a) friction due to gravity loads shall not be considered to provide resistance to seismic forces,
b) Rp for non-ductile connections, such as adhesives or power-actuated fasteners, shall be taken as 1.0,
c) Rp for anchorage using shallow expansion, chemical, epoxy or cast-in-place anchors shall be 1.5, where shallow anchors are those with a ratio of embedment length to diameter of less than 8,
d) power-actuated fasteners and drop-in anchors shall not be used for tension loads,
   © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
4.1.8.18.
e)
connections for non-structural elements or components of Category 1, 2 or 3 of Table 4.1.8.18. attached to the side of a building and above the first level above grade shall satisfy the following requirements:
i) forconnectionswherethebodyoftheconnectionisductile, the body shall be designed for values of Cp, Ar and Rp given in Table 4.1.8.18., and all of the other parts of the connection, such as anchors, welds, bolts and inserts, shall be capable of developing 2.0 times the nominal yield resistance of the body of the connection, and
ii) connectionswherethebodyoftheconnectionisnotductile shall be designed for values of Cp = 2.0, Rp = 1.0 and Ar given in Table 4.1.8.18., and
a ductile connection is one where the body of the connection is capable of dissipating energy through cyclic inelastic behaviour.
f)
Floors and roofs acting as diaphragms shall satisfy the requirements for diaphragms stated in Article 4.1.8.15.
9) Lateral deflections of elements or components shall be based on the loads defined in Sentence (1) and lateral deflections obtained from an elastic analysis shall be multiplied by Rp/IE to give realistic values of the anticipated deflections.
10) The elements or components shall be designed so as not to transfer to the structure any forces unaccounted for in the design, and rigid elements such as walls or panels shall satisfy the requirements of Sentence 4.1.8.3.(6).
11) Seismic restraint for suspended equipment, pipes, ducts, electrical cable trays, etc. shall be designed to meet the force and displacement requirements of this Article and be constructed in a manner that will not subject hanger rods to bending.
12) Isolated suspended equipment and components, such as pendent lights, may be designed as a pendulum system provided that adequate chains or cables capable of supporting 2.0 times the weight of the suspended component are provided and the deflection requirements of Sentence (10) are satisfied.
13) Free-standing steel pallet storage racks are permitted to be designed to resist earthquake effects using rational analysis, provided the design achieves the minimum performance level required by Subsection 4.1.8. (See Note A-4.1.8.18.(13).)
14) Except as provided in Sentence (15), the relative displacement of glass in glazing systems, Dfallout, shall be equal to the greater of
8)
a)
b)
(See Note A-4.1.8.18.(14) and (15).)
15) Glass need not comply with Sentence (14), provided at least one of the following conditions is met:
a) IEFaSa(0.2) < 0.35,
b) the glass has sufficient clearance from its frame such that Dclear ≥ 1.25 Dp
calculated as follows:
where
Dclear = relative horizontal displacement measured over the height of the
glass panel, which causes initial glass-to-frame contact,
C1 = average of the clearances on both sides between the vertical glass
edges and the frame,
hp = height of the rectangular glass panel,
Dfallout ........... Dp .................
, where
= relative displacement at which glass fallout occurs, and
= relative earthquake displacement that the component must be designed to accommodate, calculated in accordance with Article 4.1.8.13. and applied over the height of the glass component, or
13 mm.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Amended Page Division B 4-67
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 4.1.8.19.
Division B
4.1.8.19.
(See Note A-4.1.8.18.(14) and (15).)
16) For structures with supplemental energy dissipation, the following criteria shall apply:
a) the value of Sa(0.2) used in Sentence (1) shall be determined from the mean 5% damped floor spectral acceleration values at 0.2 s by averaging the individual 5% damped floor spectra at the base of the structure determined using Non-Linear Dynamic Analysis, and
b) the value of Fa used in Sentence (1) shall be 1.
Seismic Isolation
1) For the purposes of this Article and Article 4.1.8.20., the following terms shall have the meanings stated herein:
a) “seismic isolation” is an alternative seismic design concept that consists of installing an isolation system with low horizontal stiffness, thereby substantially increasing the fundamental period of the structure;
b) “isolation system” is a collection of structural elements at the level of the isolation interface that includes all individual isolator units, all structural elements that transfer force between elements of the isolation system,
all connections to other structural elements, and may also include a wind-restraint system, energy-dissipation devices, and a displacement restraint system;
c) “seismically isolated structure” includes the upper portion of the structure above the isolation system, the isolation system, and the portion of the structure below the isolation system;
d) “isolator unit” is a structural element of the isolation system that permits large lateral deformations under lateral earthquake design forces and is characterized by vertical-load-carrying capability combined with increased horizontal flexibility and high vertical stiffness, energy dissipation (hysteretic or viscous), self-centering capability, and lateral restraint (sufficient elastic stiffness) under non-seismic service lateral loads;
e) “isolation interface” is the boundary between the isolated upper portion of the structure above the isolation system and the lower portion of the structure below the isolation system; and
f) “wind-restraint system” is the collection of structural elements of the isolation system that provides restraint of the seismically isolated structure for wind loads and is permitted to be either an integral part of the isolator units or a separate device.
2) Every seismically isolated structure and every portion thereof shall be analyzed and designed in accordance with
a) the loads and requirements prescribed in this Article and Article 4.1.8.20.,
b) other applicable requirements of this Subsection, and
c) appropriate engineering principles and current engineering practice.
(See Note A-4.1.8.19.(2).)
3) For the analysis and modeling of the seismically isolated structure, the following criteria shall apply:
a) a three-dimensional Non-linear Dynamic Analysis of the structure shall be performed in accordance with Article 4.1.8.12. (see Note A-4.1.8.19.(3)(a)),
4-68 Division B
Amended Page National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
c) d)
= width of the rectangular glass panel,
the glass is fully tempered, monolithic, installed in a non-post-disaster building, and no part of the glass is located more than 3 m above a walking surface, or
the glass is annealed or heat-strengthened laminated glass in a single thickness with an interlayer no less than 0.76 mm and captured mechanically in a wall system glazing pocket with the perimeter secured to the frame by a wet, glazed, gunable, curing, elastomeric sealant perimeter bead of 13 mm minimum glass contact width.
C2
bp
= averages of the top and bottom clearances between the horizontal glass edges and the frame, and
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
4.1.8.20.
4.1.8.20.
(See Note A-4.1.8.19.(4) and 4.1.8.21.(5).)
Seismic Isolation Design Provisions
1) The period of the isolated structure, determined using the post-yield stiffness of the isolation system in the horizontal direction under consideration, shall be greater than three times the period of the structure above the isolation interface calculated as a fixed base.
2) The isolation system shall be configured to produce a restoring force such that the lateral force at the TDD at the centre of mass of the isolated structure above the isolation interface is at least 0.025Wb greater than the lateral force at 50% of the TDD at the same location, in each horizontal direction, where Wb is the portion of W above the isolation interface.
3) The values of storey shears, storey forces, member forces, and deflections used in the design of all structural framing elements and components of the isolation system shall be obtained from analysis conforming to Sentence 4.1.8.19.(3) using one of the following values, whichever produces the most critical effect:
a) mean plus IE times the standard deviation of results of all Non-linear Dynamic Analyses, or
b) √IE times the mean of the results of all Non-linear Dynamic Analyses.
4) The force-deformation and damping characteristics of the isolation system used in the analysis and design of seismically isolated structures shall be validated by
b)
c)
d)
4)
a) b)
c)
unless verified from rational analysis, the inherent equivalent viscous damping—excluding the hysteretic damping provided by the isolation system or supplemental energy dissipation devices—used in the analysis shall not be taken as more than 2.5% of the critical damping at the significant modes of vibration,
all individual isolator units shall be modeled with sufficient detail to account for their non-linear force-deformation characteristics, including effects of the relevant loads, and with consideration of variations in material properties over the design life of the structure, and
except for elements of the isolation system, other components of the seismically isolated structure shall be modeled using elastic material properties in accordance with Sentence 4.1.8.3.(8).
The ground motion histories used in Sentence (3) shall be appropriately selected and scaled following good engineering practice, compatible with
i) a response spectrum derived from the design spectral acceleration values, S(T), defined in Sentence 4.1.8.4.(9) for ground conditions of Site Classes A, B and C, and
ii) a 5% damped response spectrum based on a site-specific evaluation for ground conditions of Site Classes D, E and F, and
amplitude-scaled in an appropriate manner over the period range of 0.2 T1 to 1.5 T1, where T1 is the period of the isolated structure determined using the post-yield stiffness of the isolation system in the horizontal direction under consideration, or the period specified in Sentence 4.1.8.20.(1) if the post-yield stiffness of the isolation system is not well defined.
testing unit of
a) b) c)
at least two full-size specimens of each predominant type and size of isolator the isolation system, which shall include
the individual isolator units,
separate supplemental damping devices, if used, and
separate sacrificial wind-restraint systems, if used.
The force-deformation characteristics and damping value of a representative sample of the isolator units installed in the building shall be validated by tests prior to their installation.
6) A diaphragm or horizontal structural elements shall provide continuity immediately above the isolation interface to transmit forces due to non-uniform ground motions from one part of the structure to another.
5)
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 4-69
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 4.1.8.21.
Division B
4.1.8.21.
7) All structural framing elements shall be designed for the forces described in Sentence (3) with RdRo= 1.0, except
a) for structures with IE < 1.5, all SFRS shall be detailed in accordance with the requirements for Rd ≥ 1.5 and the applicable referenced design standards, and
b) for structures with IE = 1.5, all SFRS shall be detailed in accordance with the requirements for Rd ≥ 2.0 and the applicable referenced design standards.
8) The height restrictions noted in Table 4.1.8.9. need not apply to seismically isolated structures.
9) All isolator units shall be
a) designed for the forces described in Sentence (3), and
b) able to accommodate the TDD determined at the specific location of each
isolator unit.
10) The isolation system, including a separate wind-restraint system if used, shall limit lateral displacement due to wind loads across the isolation interface to a value equal to that required for the least storey height in accordance with Sentence 4.1.3.5.(3).
Supplemental Energy Dissipation
1) For the purposes of this Article and Article 4.1.8.22., the following terms shall have the meanings stated herein:
a) “supplemental energy dissipation device” is a dedicated structural element of the supplemental energy dissipation system that dissipates energy due to relative motion of each of its ends or by alternative means, and includes all pins, bolts, gusset plates, brace extensions and other components required to connect it to the other elements of the structure; a device may be classified as either displacement-dependent or velocity-dependent, or
a combination thereof, and may be configured to act in either a linear or
non-linear manner, and
b) “supplemental energy dissipation system” is a collection of energy
dissipation devices installed in a structure that supplement the energy dissipation of the SFRS.
2) Every structure with a supplemental energy dissipation system and every portion thereof shall be designed and constructed in accordance with
a) the loads and requirements prescribed in this Article and Article 4.1.8.22.,
b) other applicable requirements of this Subsection, and
c) appropriate engineering principles and current engineering practice.
(See Note A-4.1.8.21.(2).)
3) Where supplemental energy dissipation devices are used across the isolation interface of a seismically isolated structure, displacements, velocities, and accelerations shall be determined in accordance with Article 4.1.8.20.
4) For the analysis and modeling of structures with supplemental energy dissipation devices, the following criteria shall apply:
a) a three-dimensional Non-linear Dynamic Analysis of the structure shall be performed in accordance with Article 4.1.8.12. (see Note A-4.1.8.21.(4)(a)),
b) for SFRS with Rd > 1.0, the non-linear hysteretic behaviour of the SFRS shall be explicitly—with sufficient detail—accounted for in the modeling and analysis of the structure,
c) unless verified from rational analysis, the inherent equivalent viscous damping—excluding the damping provided by the supplemental energy dissipation devices—used in the analysis shall not be taken as more than 2.5% of the critical damping at the significant modes of vibration,
d) all supplemental energy dissipation devices shall be modeled with sufficient detail to account for their non-linear force deformation characteristics, including effects of the relevant loads, and with consideration of variations in their properties over the design life of the structure, and
e) except for the SFRS and elements of the supplemental energy dissipation system, other components of the structure shall be modeled using elastic material properties in accordance with Sentence 4.1.8.3.(8).
4-70 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
4.1.8.22.
4.1.8.22.
Supplemental Energy Dissipation Design Considerations
1) The values of storey shears, storey forces, member forces, and deflections for the design of all structural framing elements and all supplemental energy dissipation devices shall be obtained from analysis conforming to Sentence 4.1.8.21.(4) using one of the following values, whichever produces the most critical effect:
a) mean plus IE times the standard deviation of the results of all Non-linear Dynamic Analyses, or
b) √IE times the mean of the results of all Non-linear Dynamic Analyses.
2) The largest interstorey deflection at any level of the structure as determined in accordance with Sentence (1) shall conform to the limits stated in Sentence 4.1.8.13.(3).
3) The force-deformation and force-velocity characteristics of the supplemental energy dissipation devices used in the analysis and design of structures with supplemental energy dissipation systems shall be validated by testing at least two full-size specimens of each type of supplementary energy dissipation device.
4) The force-deformation and force-velocity characteristics and damping values of a representative sample of the supplemental energy dissipation devices installed in the building shall be validated by tests prior to their installation.
5) Elements of the supplemental energy dissipation system, except the supplemental energy dissipation devices themselves, shall be designed to remain elastic for the design loads.
6) All structural framing elements shall be designed
a) for an SFRS with Rd =1.0, using the forces referred to in Sentence (1) with
RdRo = 1.0, except that the SFRS shall be detailed in accordance with the
requirements for Rd ≥ 1.5 and the applicable referenced design standards, or
b) for an SFRS with Rd > 1.0, using the forces referred to in Sentence (1) with
RdRo = 1.0, except that the SFRS shall be detailed in accordance with the requirements for the selected Rd and the applicable referenced design standards.
7) Supplemental energy dissipation devices and other components of the supplemental energy dissipation system shall be designed in accordance with Sentence (1) with consideration of the following:
a) low-cycle, large-displacement degradation due to seismic loads,
b) high-cycle, small-displacement degradation due to wind, thermal, or other
cyclic loads,
c) forces or displacements due to gravity loads,
d) adhesion of device parts due to corrosion or abrasion, biodegradation, moisture, or chemical exposure,
e) exposure to environmental conditions, including, but not limited to, temperature, humidity, moisture, radiation (e.g., ultraviolet light), and reactive or corrosive substances (e.g., salt water),
f) devices subject to failure due to low-cycle fatigue must resist wind forces without slip, movement, or inelastic cycling,
g) the range of thermal conditions, device wear, manufacturing tolerances, and other effects that cause device properties to vary during the design life of the device, and
h) connection points of devices must provide sufficient articulation to accommodate simultaneous longitudinal, lateral, and vertical displacements of the supplemental energy dissipation system.
5)
a) b)
The ground motion histories used in Sentence (4) shall be
appropriately selected and scaled following good engineering practice, compatible with a 5% damped response spectrum derived from the design spectral acceleration values, S(T), defined in Sentence 4.1.8.4.(9), and amplitude-scaled in an appropriate manner over the period range of 0.2 T1 to 1.5 T1, where T1 is the fundamental lateral period of the structure with the supplemental energy dissipation system.
c)
(See Note A-4.1.8.19.(4) and 4.1.8.21.(5).)
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 4-71
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 4.2.1.1. Division B
8) Means of access for inspection and removal for replacement of all supplemental energy dissipation devices shall be provided.
Section 4.2. Foundations
4.2.1. 4.2.1.1.
4.2.2. 4.2.2.1.
4.2.2.2.
4.2.2.3.
General Application
1) This Section applies to excavations and foundation systems for buildings. Subsurface Investigations, Drawings and Reviews
Subsurface Investigation
1) A subsurface investigation, including groundwater conditions, shall be carried out by or under the direction of a professional engineer having knowledge and experience in planning and executing such investigations to a degree appropriate for the building and its use, the ground and the surrounding site conditions. (See Note A-4.2.2.1.(1).)
Drawings
1) Drawings associated with foundations and excavations shall conform to the appropriate requirements of Section 2.2. of Division C. (See Article 2.2.4.6. of Division C.)
Field Review
1) A field review shall be carried out by the designer or by another suitably qualified person to ascertain that the subsurface conditions are consistent with the design and that construction is carried out in accordance with the design and good engineering practice. (See Note A-4.2.2.3.(1).)
2) The review required by Sentence (1) shall be carried out
a) on a continuous basis
i) duringtheconstructionofalldeepfoundationunitswithall pertinent information recorded for each foundation unit,
ii) duringtheinstallationandremovalofretainingstructures
and related backfilling operations, and
iii) duringtheplacementofengineeredfillsthataretobeused
to support the foundation units, and
b) as required, unless otherwise directed by the authority having jurisdiction,
i) intheconstructionofallshallowfoundationunits,and ii) inexcavating,dewateringandotherrelatedworks.
Altered Subsurface Condition
1) If, during construction, the soil, rock or groundwater is found not to be of the type or in the condition used in design and as indicated on the drawings, the design shall be reassessed by the designer.
2) If, during construction, climatic or any other conditions change the properties of the soil, rock or groundwater, the design shall be reassessed by the designer.
Materials Used in Foundations Wood
1) Wood used in foundations or in support of soil or rock shall conform with the appropriate requirements of Subsection 4.3.1.
4.2.2.4.
4.2.3. 4.2.3.1.
4-72 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 4.2.3.9.
4.2.3.2.
Preservation Treatment of Wood
1) Wood exposed to soil or air above the lowest anticipated groundwater table shall be treated with preservative in conformance with CAN/CSA-O80 Series, “Wood Preservation,” and the requirements of the appropriate commodity standard as follows:
a) CAN/CSA-O80.2, “Processing and Treatment,”
b) CAN/CSA-O80.3, “Preservative Formulations,” or
c) CSA O80.15, “Preservative Treatment of Wood for Building Foundation Systems, Basements, and Crawl Spaces by Pressure Processes.”
2) Where timber has been treated as required in Sentence (1), it shall be cared for as provided in AWPA M4, “Care of Preservative-Treated Wood Products,” as revised by Clause 6 of CAN/CSA-O80 Series, “Wood Preservation.”
Plain and Reinforced Masonry
1) Plain or reinforced masonry used in foundations or in support of soil or rock shall
conform with the requirements of Subsection 4.3.2.
Prevention of Deterioration of Masonry
1) Where plain or reinforced masonry in foundations or in structures supporting soil or rock may be subject to conditions conducive to deterioration, protection shall be provided to prevent such deterioration.
Concrete
1) Plain, reinforced or pre-stressed concrete used in foundations or in support of
soil or rock shall conform with the requirements of Subsection 4.3.3. Protection Against Chemical Attack
1) Where concrete in foundations may be subject to chemical attack, it shall be treated in conformance with the requirements in CSA A23.1, “Concrete Materials and Methods of Concrete Construction.”
Steel
1) Steel used in foundations or in support of soil or rock shall conform with the appropriate requirements of Subsection 4.3.3. or 4.3.4., unless otherwise specified in this Section.
Steel Piles
1) Where steel piles are used in deep foundations and act as permanent load-carrying members, the steel shall conform with one of the following standards:
a) ASTM A 252, “Welded and Seamless Steel Pipe Piles,”
b) ASTM A 283/A 283M, “Low and Intermediate Tensile Strength Carbon Steel
Plates,”
c) ASTM A 1008/A 1008M, “Steel, Sheet, Cold-Rolled, Carbon, Structural,
High-Strength Low-Alloy, High-Strength Low-Alloy with Improved
Formability, Solution Hardened, and Bake Hardenable,”
d) ASTM A 1011/A 1011M, “Steel, Sheet and Strip, Hot-Rolled, Carbon, Structural, High-Strength Low-Alloy, High-Strength Low-Alloy with
Improved Formability, and Ultra-High Strength,” or e) CSA G40.21, “Structural Quality Steel.”
High Strength Steel Tendons
1) Where high strength steel is used for tendons in anchor systems used for the permanent support of a foundation or in the erection of temporary support of soil or rock adjacent to an excavation, it shall conform with the requirements of CSA A23.1, “Concrete Materials and Methods of Concrete Construction.”
4.2.3.3.
4.2.3.4.
4.2.3.5.
4.2.3.6.
4.2.3.7.
4.2.3.8.
4.2.3.9.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 4-73
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 4.2.3.10.
Division B
4.2.3.10.
4.2.4. 4.2.4.1.
Corrosion of Steel
1) Where conditions are corrosive to steel, adequate protection of exposed steel
shall be provided. (See Article 1.2.1.1. of Division A for use of other materials.)
Design Requirements Design Basis
1) The design of foundations, excavations and soil- and rock-retaining structures shall be based on a subsurface investigation carried out in conformance with the requirements of this Section, and on any of the following, as appropriate:
a) application of generally accepted geotechnical and civil engineering principles by a professional engineer especially qualified in this field of work, as provided in this Section and other Sections of Part 4,
b) established local practice, where such practice includes successful experience both with soils and rocks of similar type and condition and with a foundation or excavation of similar type, construction method, size and depth, or
c) in situ testing of foundation units, such as the load testing of piles, anchors or footings, carried out by a person competent in this field of work.
(See Note A-4.2.4.1.(1).)
2) The foundations of a building shall be capable of resisting all the loads stipulated in Section 4.1., in accordance with limit states design in Subsection 4.1.3.
3) For the purpose of the application of the load combinations given in
Table 4.1.3.2.-A, the geotechnical components of loads and the factored geotechnical resistances at ULS shall be determined by a suitably qualified and experienced professional engineer. (See Note A-4.2.4.1.(3).)
4) Geotechnical components of service loads and geotechnical reactions for SLS shall be determined by a suitably qualified and experienced professional engineer.
5) The foundation of a building shall be designed to satisfy SLS requirements within the limits that the building is designed to accommodate, including total settlement and differential settlement, heave, lateral movement, tilt or rotation. (See Note A-4.2.4.1.(5).)
6) Communication, interaction and coordination between the designer and the professional engineer responsible for the geotechnical aspects of the project shall take place to a degree commensurate with the complexity and requirements of the project.
Subsurface Investigation
1) A subsurface investigation shall be carried out to the depth and extent to which the building or excavation will significantly change the stress in the soil or rock, or to such a depth and extent as to provide all the necessary information for the design and construction of the excavation or the foundations.
Identification
1) The identification and classification of soil, rock and groundwater and descriptions of their engineering and physical properties shall be in accordance with a widely accepted system.
Depth of Foundations
1) Except as permitted in Sentence (2), the bearing surface of a foundation shall be below the level of potential damage, including damage resulting from frost action, and the foundation shall be designed to prevent damage resulting from adfreezing and frost jacking. (See Note A-4.2.4.4.(1).)
2) The bearing surface of a foundation need not be below the level of potential damage from frost where the foundation
4.2.4.2.
4.2.4.3.
4.2.4.4.
4-74 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
a) b)
is designed against frost action, or
overlies material not susceptible to frost action.
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
4.2.5.1.
4.2.4.5.
4.2.4.6.
4.2.4.7.
4.2.4.8.
4.2.4.9.
4.2.4.10.
4.2.4.11.
4.2.4.12.
4.2.4.13.
4.2.4.14.
4.2.5. 4.2.5.1.
Sloping Ground
1) Where a foundation is to rest on, in or near sloping ground, this particular
condition shall be provided for in the design.
Eccentric and Inclined Loads
1) Where there is eccentricity or inclination of loading in foundation units, this
effect shall be fully investigated and provided for in the design.
Dynamic Loading
1) Where dynamic loading conditions apply, the effects shall be assessed by a
special investigation of these conditions and provided for in the design.
Hydrostatic Uplift
1) Where a foundation or any part of a building is subject to hydrostatic uplift, the
effects shall be provided for in the design.
Groundwater Level Change
1) Where proposed construction will result in a temporary or permanent change in the groundwater level, the effects of this change on adjacent buildings shall be fully investigated and provided for in the design.
Permafrost
1) Where conditions of permafrost are encountered or proven to exist, the design of the foundation shall be based upon analysis of these conditions by a person especially qualified in that field of work.
Swelling and Shrinking Soils
1) Where swelling or shrinking soils, in which movements resulting from moisture content changes may be sufficient to cause damage to a structure, are encountered or known to exist, such a condition shall be fully investigated and provided for in the design.
Expanding and Deteriorating Rock
1) Where rock that expands or deteriorates when subjected to unfavourable environmental conditions or to stress release is known to exist, this condition shall be fully investigated and provided for in the design.
Construction on Fill
1) Buildings may be placed on fill if it can be shown by subsurface investigation that
a) the fill is or can be made capable of safely supporting the building,
b) detrimental movement of the building or of services leading to the building
will not occur, and
c) explosive gases can be controlled or do not exist.
Structural Design
1) The structural design of the foundation of a building, the procedures and construction practices shall conform with the appropriate Sections of this Code unless otherwise specified in this Section.
Excavations
Design of Excavations
1) The design of excavations and of supports for the sides of excavations shall conform with Subsection 4.2.4. and with this Subsection. (See Note A-4.2.5.1.(1).)
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division B 4-75
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 4.2.5.2.
Division B
4.2.5.2.
4.2.5.3.
4.2.5.4.
4.2.5.5.
4.2.5.6.
4.2.5.7.
4.2.5.8.
4.2.6. 4.2.6.1.
4.2.6.2.
Excavation Construction
1) Every excavation shall be undertaken in such a manner as to
a) prevent movement that would cause damage to adjacent buildings at all
phases of construction, and
b) comply with the appropriate requirements of Part 8.
2) Material shall not be placed nor shall equipment be operated or placed in or adjacent to an excavation in a manner that may endanger the integrity of the excavation or its supports.
Supported Excavations
1) The sides of an excavation in soil or rock shall be supported by a retaining structure conforming with the requirements of Articles 4.2.5.1. and 4.2.5.2., except as permitted in Article 4.2.5.4.
Unsupported Excavations
1) The sides of an excavation in soil or rock may be unsupported where a design is
prepared in conformance with the requirements of Articles 4.2.5.1. and 4.2.5.2.
Control of Water around Excavations
1) Surface water, all groundwater, perched groundwater and in particular artesian
groundwater shall be kept under control at all phases of excavation and construction. Loss of Ground
1) At all phases of excavation and construction, loss of ground due to water or any other cause shall be prevented.
Protection and Maintenance at Excavations
1) All sides of an excavation, supported and unsupported, shall be continuously maintained and protected from possible deterioration by construction activity or by the action of frost, rain and wind.
Backfilling
1) Where an excavation is backfilled, the backfill shall be placed so as to
a) provide lateral support to the soil adjacent to the excavation, and
b) prevent detrimental movements.
2) The material used as backfill or fill supporting a footing, foundation or a floor on grade shall be of a type that is not subject to detrimental volume change with changes in moisture content and temperature. (See Note A-4.2.5.8.(2).)
Shallow Foundations Design of Shallow Foundations
1) The design of shallow foundations shall be in conformance with Subsection 4.2.4. and the requirements of this Subsection. (See Note A-4.2.6.1.(1).)
Support of Shallow Foundations
1) Where a shallow foundation is to be placed on soil or rock, the soil or rock shall be cleaned of loose and unsound material and shall be adequate to support the design load taking into account temperature, precipitation, construction activities and other factors that may lead to changes in the properties of soil or rock.
4-76 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 4.2.7.4.
4.2.6.3.
4.2.6.4.
4.2.7. 4.2.7.1.
4.2.7.2.
Incorrect Placement of Shallow Foundations
1) Where a shallow foundation unit has not been placed or located as indicated on the drawings,
a) the error shall be corrected, or
b) the design of the foundation unit shall be recalculated for the altered
conditions by the designer and action taken as required in Article 2.2.4.7. of Division C.
Damaged Shallow Foundations
1) If a shallow foundation unit is damaged,
a) it shall be repaired, or
b) the design of the foundation unit shall be recalculated for the damaged
condition by the designer and action taken as required in Article 2.2.4.7. of Division C.
Deep Foundations General
1) A deep foundation shall provide support for a building by transferring loads by end-bearing to a competent stratum at considerable depth below the structure, or by mobilizing resistance by adhesion or friction, or both, in the soil or rock in which it is placed. (See Note A-4.2.7.1.(1).)
Design of Deep Foundations
1) Deep foundations shall be designed in conformance with Subsection 4.2.4. and
this Subsection. (See Note A-4.2.7.2.(1).)
2) Where deep foundation units are load tested, as required in Clause 4.2.4.1.(1)(c), the determination of the number and type of load test and the interpretation of the results shall be carried out by a professional engineer especially qualified in this field of work. (See Note A-4.2.7.2.(2).)
3) The design of deep foundations shall be determined on the basis of geotechnical considerations taking into account
a) the method of installation,
b) the degree of inspection,
c) the spacing of foundation units and group effects,
d) other requirements in this Subsection, and
e) the appropriate structural requirements in Section 4.1. and Subsections 4.3.1., 4.3.3. and 4.3.4.
4) The portion of a deep foundation unit permanently in contact with soil or rock shall be structurally designed as a laterally supported compression member.
5) The portion of a deep foundation unit that is not permanently in contact with soil or rock shall be structurally designed as a laterally unsupported compression member.
6) The structural design of prefabricated deep foundation units shall allow for all stresses resulting from driving, handling and testing.
Tolerance in Alignment and Location
1) Permissible deviations from the design alignment and the location of the top of deep foundation units shall be determined by design analysis and shall be indicated on the drawings.
Incorrect Alignment and Location
1) Where a deep foundation unit has not been placed within the permissible deviations referred to in Article 4.2.7.3., the condition of the foundation shall be assessed by the designer, any necessary changes made and action taken as required in Article 2.2.4.7. of Division C.
4.2.7.3.
4.2.7.4.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 4-77
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 4.2.7.5.
Division B
4.2.7.5.
4.2.7.6.
4.2.8. 4.2.8.1.
4.2.8.2.
Installation of Deep Foundations
1) Deep foundation units shall be installed in such a manner as not to impair
a) the strength of the deep foundation units and the properties of the soil or rock
on or in which they are placed beyond the calculated or anticipated limits,
b) the integrity of previously installed deep foundation units, or
c) the integrity of neighbouring buildings.
Damaged Deep Foundation Units
1) Where inspection shows that a deep foundation unit is damaged or not consistent with design or good engineering practice,
a) such a unit shall be reassessed by the designer,
b) any necessary changes shall be made, and
c) action shall be taken as required in Article 2.2.4.7. of Division C.
Special Foundations General
1) Where special foundation systems are used, such systems shall conform to Subsection 4.2.4., Sentence 4.1.1.5.(2) and Article 1.2.1.1. of Division A.
Use of Existing Foundations
1) Existing foundations may be used to support new or altered buildings provided
they comply with all pertinent requirements of this Section.
Section 4.3. Design Requirements for Structural Materials
4.3.1. 4.3.1.1.
4.3.1.2.
4.3.1.3.
4.3.2. 4.3.2.1.
4.3.3. 4.3.3.1.
Wood
Design Basis for Wood
1) Buildings and their structural members made of wood shall conform to CSA O86, “Engineering Design in Wood.”
Glued-Laminated Members
1) Glued-laminated members shall be fabricated in plants conforming to CSA
O177, “Qualification Code for Manufacturers of Structural Glued-Laminated Timber.”
Termites
1) In areas known to be infested by termites, the requirements in
Articles 9.3.2.9., 9.12.1.1. and 9.15.5.1. shall apply.
Plain and Reinforced Masonry
Design Basis for Plain and Reinforced Masonry
1) Buildings and their structural members made of plain and reinforced masonry shall conform to CSA S304, “Design of Masonry Structures.”
Plain, Reinforced and Pre-stressed Concrete
Design Basis for Plain, Reinforced and Pre-stressed Concrete
1) Buildings and their structural members made of plain, reinforced and pre-stressed concrete shall conform to CSA A23.3, “Design of Concrete Structures.” (See Note A-4.3.3.1.(1).)
4-78 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 4.4.2.1.
4.3.4. 4.3.4.1.
4.3.4.2.
4.3.4.3.
4.3.5. 4.3.5.1.
4.3.6. 4.3.6.1.
Steel
Design Basis for Structural Steel
1) Buildings and their structural members made of structural steel shall conform to CSA S16, “Design of Steel Structures.” (See Note A-4.3.4.1.(1).)
Design Basis for Cold-Formed Steel
1) Buildings and their structural members made of cold-formed steel shall conform to CSA S136, “North American Specification for the Design of Cold-Formed Steel Structural Members (using the Appendix B provisions applicable to Canada).” (See Note A-4.3.4.2.(1).)
Steel Building Systems
1) Steel building systems shall be manufactured by companies certified in accordance with the requirements of CSA A660, “Certification of Manufacturers of Steel Building Systems.”
Aluminum
Design Basis for Aluminum
1) Buildings and their structural members made of aluminum shall conform
to CAN/CSA-S157/S157.1, “Strength Design in Aluminum/Commentary on CSA S157-05, Strength Design in Aluminum,” using the loads stipulated in Section 4.1., in accordance with limit states design in Subsection 4.1.3.
Glass
Design Basis for Glass
1) Glass used in buildings shall be designed in conformance with
a) CAN/CGSB-12.20-M, “Structural Design of Glass for Buildings,” using an
adjustment factor on the wind load, W, of not less than 0.75, or
b) ASTM E 1300, “Determining Load Resistance of Glass in Buildings,” using
an adjustment factor on the wind load, W, of not less than 1.0.
(See Note A-4.3.6.1.(1).)
Section 4.4. Design Requirements for Special Structures
4.4.1. Air-Supported Structures
4.4.1.1. Design Basis for Air-Supported Structures
1) The structural design of air-supported structures shall conform to CSA S367, “Air-, Cable-, and Frame-Supported Membrane Structures,” using the loads stipulated in Section 4.1., in accordance with limit states design in Subsection 4.1.3.
4.4.2. Parking Structures
4.4.2.1. Design Basis for Parking Structures and Repair Garages
1) Parking structures and repair garages shall be designed in conformance with CSA S413, “Parking Structures.” (See Note A-4.4.2.1.(1).)
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 4-79
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 4.5.1.1. Division B
Section 4.5. Objectives and Functional Statements
4.5.1. Objectives and Functional Statements 4.5.1.1. Attributions to Acceptable Solutions
1) For the purpose of compliance with this Code as required in
Clause 1.2.1.1.(1)(b) of Division A, the objectives and functional statements attributed to the acceptable solutions in this Part shall be the objectives and functional statements listed in Table 4.5.1.1. (See Note A-1.1.2.1.(1).)
Table 4.5.1.1.
Objectives and Functional Statements Attributed to the Acceptable Solutions in Part 4
Forming Part of Sentence 4.5.1.1.(1)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
4.1.1.3. Design Requirements
(1) [F20-OS2.1]
(2) [F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OH4]
(3) [F20-OS2.1] Applies to structural members where temporary overloading during construction may result in impairment of that or any other member.
(4) [F20,F80,F82-OS2.1]
(5) [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
[F20-OS2.3,OS2.4]
4.1.1.5. Design Basis
(2) [F20-OS2.1] [F22-OS2.4,OS2.5] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4,OP2.5] [F22-OH4]
4.1.2.1. Loads and Effects
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OH4]
(2) [F20-OS2.1]
(3) [F20-OS2.1]
4.1.2.2. Loads Not Listed
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OH4]
4.1.3.2. Strength and Stability
(1) [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4] [F20-OS2.1]
(2) [F20-OS2.1]
[F22-OS2.4,OS2.5] Applies to the stabilizing resistance of the dead load.
[F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
(3)
(4)
(5)
(8)
(9)
(11) (12)
Table 4.5.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
[F20-OS2.1]
[F22-OS2.4,OS2.5] Applies to the stabilizing resistance of the dead load.
4-80 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
[F20-OP2.1] [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.4] [F22-OS2.4,OS2.5] [F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OP2.4] [F22-OS2.4,OS2.5]
[F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OP2.4]
4.1.3.3. Fatigue
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(2) [F20-OS2.1]
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.4] [F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OH4]
4.1.3.4. Serviceability
(1) [F22-OP2.4] [F22-OH4]
4.1.3.5. Deflection
(1) (b),(c),(d) [F22-OP2.4] [F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OH4]
(2) [F22-OS2.3,OS2.4] [F22-OP2.4]
(3) [F22-OP2.4]
(5) [F22-OS2.3,OS2.4]
[F22-OP2.3,OP2.4]
                                                              © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
4.5.1.1.
Table 4.5.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
4.1.3.6. Vibration
(1) [F22-OP2.4] [F22-OH4]
(2) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1,OP2.4] [F22-OP2.4] [F22-OH4]
4.1.4.1. Dead Loads
Table 4.5.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
4.1.5.7. More Than One Occupancy
(2) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(3) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(5) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(6) [F20-OS2.1]
[F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OS2.4,OS2.5]
4.1.5.8. Variation with Tributary Area
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OH4]
4.1.5.9. Concentrated Loads
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
4.1.5.10. Sway Forces in Assembly Occupancies
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1,OP2.4]
4.1.5.11. Crane-Supporting Structures and Impact of Machinery and Equipment
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1,OP2.4] [F22-OP2.4]
(3) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1,OP2.4]
(4) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1,OP2.4]
(5) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1,OP2.4]
4.1.5.12. Bleachers
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
(3) [F20-OS2.4]
4.1.5.13. Helicopter Landing Areas
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
4.1.5.14. Loads on Guards and Handrails
(1) [F20-OS2.1]
(2) [F20-OS2.1]
(3) [F20-OS2.1,OS2.4]
(4) [F22-OS2.4]
(6) [F20-OS2.1]
(7) [F20-OS2.1]
4.1.5.15. Loads on Vehicle Guardrails
(1) [F20-OS2.1]
4.1.5.16. Loads on Walls Acting As Guards (1) [F20-OS2.1]
4.1.5.1. Loads Due to Use of Floors and Roofs
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OH4]
4.1.5.2. Uses Not Stipulated
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OH4]
4.1.5.3. Full and Partial Loading
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OH4]
4.1.5.4. Loads for Occupancy Served
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OH4]
4.1.5.5. Loads on Exterior Areas
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OH4]
(2) [F20-OS2.1]
[F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OH4]
(3) [F20-OS2.1]
[F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OH4]
(4) [F20-OS2.1]
[F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4] [F22-OH4]
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division B 4-81
(1)
[F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4] [F22-OH4]
                                                                                        © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 4.5.1.1.
Division B
Table 4.5.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
4.1.5.17. Firewalls
(1) [F20-OS1.2] [F20-OP1.2] [F20-OP3.1]
(2) [F04-OS1.2] [F04-OP1.2] [F04-OP3.1]
4.1.6.2. Specified Snow Load
[F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OP2.4]
Table 4.5.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
(2) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
(3) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
(4) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
4.1.6.6. Horizontal Gap between a Roof and a Higher Roof
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
4.1.6.7. Areas Adjacent to Roof Projections
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
4.1.6.8. Snow Drift at Corners
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
(2) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
4.1.6.9. Gable Roofs
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
(2) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
(4) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
4.1.6.10. Arch Roofs, Curved Roofs and Domes
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(2) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(3) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(5) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(6) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(7) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(8) [F20-OS2.1]
Applies to portion of Code text: “The accumulation factor, Ca, shall be 1.0, ...”
[F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4] Applies to portion of Code text: “The accumulation factor, Ca, shall be 1.0, ...”
(a) to (f) [F20-OS2.1] Applies to roof shapes and configurations that call for a higher accumulation factor.
(a) to (f) [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4] Applies to roof shapes and configurations that call for a higher accumulation factor.
(9) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
4.1.6.3. Full and Partial Loading
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
(2) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
4.1.6.4. Specified Rain Load
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
(2) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
(4) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
4.1.6.5. Multi-level Roofs
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(2) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(3) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(4) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(5) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(6) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(7) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(9) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
[F22-OP2.4] [F22-OP2.4] [F22-OP2.4] [F22-OP2.4] [F22-OP2.4] [F22-OP2.4] [F22-OP2.4] [F22-OP2.4]
4-82 Division B Amended Page National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
                                                                                      © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
4.5.1.1.
Table 4.5.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
4.1.6.11. Snow Loads Due to Sliding
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
(3) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
4.1.6.12. Valleys in Curved or Sloped Roofs
(3)
Table 4.5.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
[F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4] [F22-OH4]
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(2) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(3) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
[F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OP2.4]
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
(8)
(10)
[F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OH4] [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OH4] [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OH4] [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OH4] [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OH4] [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OH4] [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OH4] [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OH4] [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OH4]
[F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OP2.4]
4.1.6.13. Specific Weight of Snow
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
4.1.6.14. Snow Removal
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
4.1.6.15. Ice Loading of Structures
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
4.1.7.1. Specified Wind Load
(2) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
[F22-OH4]
(3) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
[F22-OH4]
(4) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
[F22-OH4]
(5) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(6) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
[F22-OH4]
[F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OP2.4]
4.1.7.4. Topographic Factor
4.1.7.2. Classification of Buildings
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OH4]
(2) [F20-OS2.1]
[F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4] [F22-OH4]
4.1.7.5. External Pressure Coefficients
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division B 4-83
4.1.7.3. Static Procedure
(1)
(2)
[F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4] [F22-OH4]
[F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4] [F22-OH4]
(2)
[F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4] [F22-OH4]
                                                                                         © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 4.5.1.1.
Division B
(3) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
[F22-OH4]
(4) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
[F22-OH4]
(5) [F20-OS2.1]
[F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OP2.4]
(3)
(4)
(2) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
[F22-OH4]
(3) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
[F22-OH4]
(4) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
[F22-OH4]
(5) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
[F22-OH4]
(6) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
[F22-OH4]
(7) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
[F22-OH4]
(8) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
[F22-OH4]
(9) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
[F22-OH4]
[F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OP2.4]
4.1.7.10. Interior Walls and Partitions
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
4.1.7.11. Exterior Ornamentations, Equipment and Appendages
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
4.1.7.12. Wind Tunnel Procedure
Table 4.5.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
Table 4.5.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
[F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4] [F22-OH4]
[F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4] [F22-OH4]
4.1.7.6. External Pressure Coefficients for Low Buildings
(1)
[F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4] [F22-OH4]
4.1.7.7. Internal Pressure Coefficient
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OH4]
4.1.7.8. Dynamic Procedure
4.1.8.1. Analysis
(2) (a) [F20-OS2.1]
(a) [F20-OP2.1,OP2.3] [F22-OP2.4] (b) [F20-OS2.1]
(b) [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
(3) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1,OP2.4]
(4) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
(5) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
(6) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
(7) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
(8) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
[F22-OH4]
(2) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
[F22-OH4]
[F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OP2.4]
4-84 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
4.1.7.9. Full and Partial Wind Loading
(1)
(2)
(3)
[F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4] [F22-OH4]
[F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4] [F22-OH4]
[F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4] [F22-OH4]
                                                                                          © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
4.5.1.1.
(9) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(10) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(11) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(12) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(13) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.3]
(14) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.3]
[F22-OP2.4] [F22-OP2.4] [F22-OP2.4] [F22-OP2.4] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.4]
[F22-OP2.3,OP2.4]
(3) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(4) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(5) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(6) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(7) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(8) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
[F22-OP2.4] [F22-OP2.4] [F22-OP2.4] [F22-OP2.4] [F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OP2.4]
4.1.8.4. Site Properties
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(2) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(4) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(5) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(6) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(9) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
[F22-OP2.4] [F22-OP2.4] [F22-OP2.4] [F22-OP2.4] [F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OP2.4]
Table 4.5.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
Table 4.5.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
4.1.8.6. Structural Configuration
(3) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
4.1.8.7. Methods of Analysis
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
4.1.8.8. Direction of Loading
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
4.1.8.9. SFRS Force Reduction Factors, System Overstrength Factors, and General Restrictions
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
(2) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
(3) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
(4) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
4.1.8.10. Additional System Restrictions
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
(2) (a) [F20-OP2.3] [F22-OP2.4] (b) [F20-OP2.3] [F22-OP2.4] (c) [F20-OP2.3] [F22-OP2.4] (d) [F20-OP2.3] [F22-OP2.4]
(3) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
(4) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
(6) [F22-OS2.3,OS2.4] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.4]
(7) [F22-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
4.1.8.11. Equivalent Static Force Procedure for Structures Satisfying the Conditions of Article 4.1.8.7.
(2) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
(3) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
(4) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
(5) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
4.1.8.3. General Requirements
(2) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1,OP2.4]
4.1.8.5. Importance Factor
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1,OP2.3] [F22-OP2.4]
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division B 4-85
                                                                                         © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 4.5.1.1.
Division B
(6) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(7) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(8) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
[F22-OP2.4] [F22-OP2.4] [F22-OP2.4]
(2)
(3)
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(2) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(3) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
[F22-OP2.4] [F22-OP2.4] [F22-OP2.4]
4.1.8.15. Design Provisions
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1,OP2.3,OP2.4]
(2) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1,OP2.3,OP2.4]
(3) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1,OP2.3,OP2.4]
(4) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
(5) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1,OP2.4]
(6) [F20-OS2.1,OS2.4] [F20-OP2.1,OP2.4]
(7) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
4.1.8.16. Foundation Provisions
(1) [F22-OS2.3,OS2.4] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.4]
(2) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(5) [F20-OS2.2,OS2.4] [F20-OP2.2,OP2.4]
Table 4.5.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
Table 4.5.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
[F22-OS2.3,OS2.4] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.4] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.4] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.4]
(9) (a) [F20-OS2.1]
(a) [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
(b) [F20-OS2.1]
(b) [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
(10) [F20-OS2.1]
[F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
(11) (a) [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
(a) [F20-OS2.1]
(b) [F20-OS2.1]
(b) [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
(12) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
4.1.8.12. Dynamic Analysis Procedure
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
[F22-OS2.3,OS2.4] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.4] [F22-OP4.3] [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3,OS2.4] [F20-OP2.1,OP2.3,OP2.4] [F20-OP4.3] [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3,OS2.4] [F20-OP2.1,OP2.3,OP2.4] [F20-OP4.3] [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3,OS2.4] [F20-OP2.1,OP2.3,OP2.4] [F20-OP4.3]
(4) (a) [F20-OS2.1]
(a) [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
(5) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1,OP2.3] [F22-OP2.4]
(7) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1,OP2.3] [F22-OP2.4]
(8) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(9) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(10) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(12) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
[F22-OP2.4] [F22-OP2.4] [F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OP2.4]
4.1.8.13. Deflections and Drift Limits
(1) [F22-OS2.3,OS2.4] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.4]
4-86 Division B Amended Page
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
4.1.8.14. Structural Separation
                                                                                     © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
4.5.1.1.
Table 4.5.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
(6) (a) [F22-OS2.4] (7) (a) [F22-OP2.4]
Table 4.5.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
(a) [F20,F22-OS2.4]
(a) [F20,F22-OP2.3,OP2.4] (b),(c) [F20,F22-OS2.4]
(b),(c) [F20,F22-OP2.3,OP2.4] (d) [F20,F22-OS2.4]
(d) [F20,F22-OP2.3,OP2.4]
(e) [F20,F22-OS2.4]
(e) [F20,F22-OP2.3,OP2.4] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.4] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.4] [F22-OS2.1,OS2.3,OS2.4] [F22-OP2.1,OP2.3,OP2.4] [F20-OS2.1] [F22-OS2.4] [F20,F22-OP2.3,OP2.4] [F20-OS2.1] [F22-OS2.3] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.3] [F22-OS2.4]
[F20,F22-OS2.4]
[F20-OP2.3] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.4]
(b) [F22-OS2.4] (b) [F22-OP2.4] (c) [F20-OS2.4] (c) [F20-OP2.4]
(7) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1,OP2.4]
(8) (a) [F20-OS2.1] (a) [F20-OP2.1] (b) [F22-OS2.4] (b) [F22-OP2.4]
(9) [F20-OS2.4] [F20-OP2.4]
(10) [F20-OS2.2] [F22-OS2.4] [F20-OP2.2] [F22-OP2.4]
4.1.8.17. Site Stability
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
4.1.8.18. Elements of Structures, Non-structural Components and Equipment
(1) [F20,F22-OS2.4]
[F20-OP2.3] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.4]
(4) [F20,F22-OS2.4] [F20,F22-OP2.3,OP2.4]
(5) [F20,F22-OS2.1] [F20,F22-OP2.1,OP2.4]
(6) [F20,F22-OS2.4] [F20,F22-OP2.3,OP2.4]
(9)
(10)
(11)
(12)
(14) (16)
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division B 4-87
4.1.8.19. Seismic Isolation
(2) [F20-OS2.1] [F22-OS2.4] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
(3) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
(4) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
4.1.8.20. Seismic Isolation Design Provisions
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
(2) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
(3) [F20-OS2.1] [F22-OS2.4] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
(4) [F20-OS2.1] [F22-OS2.4] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
      [F20,F22-OS2.4] Applies to portion of Code text: “Connections to the structure of elements and components listed in
Table 4.1.8.18. shall be designed to support the component or element for gravity loads, shall conform to the requirements of Sentence 4.1.8.18.(1) ...”
   [F20,F22-OP2.3,OP2.4] Applies to portion of Code text: “Connections to the structure of elements and components listed in Table 4.1.8.18. shall be designed to support the component or element for gravity loads, shall conform to the requirements of Sentence 4.1.8.18.(1)...”
                                                                 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 4.5.1.1.
Division B
(5) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(6) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(7) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(9) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(10) [F22-OS2.4]
[F22-OS2.4] [F22-OP2.4] [F22-OS2.4] [F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OP2.4] [F22-OS2.4] [F22-OP2.4]
(1)
(2)
[F20-OS2.2,OS2.6] [F21-OS2.6] [F20-OP2.2] [F21-OP2.6] [F21-OP4.1,OP4.4] [F20-OS2.2,OS2.6] [F21-OS2.6] [F20-OP2.2] [F21-OP2.6] [F21-OP4.1,OP4.4]
Table 4.5.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
Table 4.5.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
4.2.2.4. Altered Subsurface Condition
[F22-OP2.3,OP2.4]
4.1.8.21. Supplemental Energy Dissipation
4.2.3.2. Preservation Treatment of Wood
(1) [F80-OS2.3] [F80-OP2.3] (2) [F82-OS2.3] [F82-OP2.3]
4.2.3.4. Prevention of Deterioration of Masonry
(1) [F80-OS2.3] [F80-OP2.3]
4.2.3.6. Protection Against Chemical Attack
(1) [F80-OS2.3] [F80-OP2.3] 4.2.3.8. Steel Piles (1) [F20-OS2.3] [F20-OP2.3]
4.2.3.9. High Strength Steel Tendons
(2) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(4) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(5) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
[F22-OS2.4] [F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OP2.4]
4.1.8.22. Supplemental Energy Dissipation Design Considerations
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(3) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(4) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(5) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(6) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(7) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(8) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
[F22-OS2.4] [F22-OP2.4] [F22-OS2.4] [F22-OP2.4] [F22-OS2.4] [F22-OP2.4] [F22-OS2.4] [F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OP2.4] [F22-OS2.4] [F22-OP2.4] [F22-OS2.4] [F22-OP2.4]
(1)
[F20,F80-OS2.5,OS2.6] [F20,F80-OP2.6,OP2.5] [F20,F80-OP4.1,OP4.4]
4.2.2.1. Subsurface Investigation
(1) [F20-OS2.2,OS2.6] [F21-OS2.6] [F20-OP2.2] [F21-OP2.6]
[F21-OP4.1,OP4.4]
4.2.2.3. Field Review
(1) [F20-OS2.2,OS2.6] [F21-OS2.6] [F20-OP2.2] [F21-OP2.5]
[F21-OP4.1,OP4.4]
4.2.4.1. Design Basis
(1) [F20-OS2.2,OS2.6] [F21-OS2.6] [F20-OP2.2] [F21-OP2.5]
[F21-OP4.1,OP4.4] (5) [F21-OS2.5]
[F21-OP2.4,OP2.5]
4.2.4.2. Subsurface Investigation
(1) [F20-OS2.2,OS2.6] [F21-OS2.6] [F20-OP2.2] [F21-OP2.6]
[F21-OP4.1,OP4.4]
4.2.4.3. Identification
(1) [F20-OS2.2,OS2.6] [F21-OS2.6] [F20-OP2.2] [F21-OP2.6]
[F21-OP4.1,OP4.4]
4-88 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
4.2.3.10. Corrosion of Steel
(1)
[F80-OS2.3] [F80-OP2.3] [F80-OP4.1]
                                                                                       © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
4.5.1.1.
Table 4.5.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
4.2.4.4. Depth of Foundations
(1) [F21-OP2.4] Applies to portion of Code text: “... the bearing surface of a foundation shall be below the level of potential damage, including damage resulting from frost action ...”
[F21-OP2.4] Applies to portion of Code text: “... the foundation shall be designed to prevent damage resulting from adfreezing and frost jacking.”
(2) [F21-OP2.4]
4.2.4.5. Sloping Ground
(1) [F21-OS2.2] [F21-OP2.2,OP2.6,OP2.4]
4.2.4.6. Eccentric and Inclined Loads
(1) [F20-OS2.1,OS2.2] [F20-OP2.1,OP2.2,OP2.4]
4.2.4.7. Dynamic Loading
(1) [F20-OS2.2] [F20-OP2.2,OP2.6,OP2.4]
[F20-OH4]
4.2.4.8. Hydrostatic Uplift
(1) [F22-OP2.1,OP2.4]
4.2.4.9. Groundwater Level Change
(1) [F21-OP4.1]
4.2.4.10. Permafrost
(1) [F20-OS2.2] [F21-OS2.5] [F20-OP2.2,OP2.4] [F21-OP2.6,OP2.4]
4.2.4.11. Swelling and Shrinking Soils
(1) [F21-OP2.6,OP2.4]
4.2.4.12. Expanding and Deteriorating Rock
(1) [F21-OP2.6,OP2.4]
4.2.4.13. Construction on Fill
(1) (a) [F20-OS2.2] [F21-OS2.5]
(b) [F20-OP2.2,OP2.4] [F21-OP2.6,OP2.4] (c) [F01-OS1.1]
4.2.5.2. Excavation Construction
(1) [F21-OP4.1]
(2) [F20-OS2.6] [F20-OP2.3]
[F20,F21-OP4.1]
4.2.5.3. Supported Excavations
(1) [F20-OS2.6] [F21-OP4.1]
4.2.5.4. Unsupported Excavations
(1) [F20-OS2.6] [F21-OP4.1]
Table 4.5.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
4.2.5.5. Control of Water around Excavations
(1) [F60-OS2.6] [F60-OP4.1,OP4.4]
4.2.5.6. Loss of Ground
(1) [F21-OP4.1]
4.2.5.7. Protection and Maintenance at Excavations
(1) [F80-OS2.6] [F80-OP4.1] 4.2.5.8. Backfilling
(1) (a) [F21-OS2.1]
(a) [F21-OP2.1,OP2.4]
[F21-OP4.1]
(2) [F21-OP2.4]
4.2.6.2. Support of Shallow Foundations
(1) [F20-OS2.2] [F20-OP2.2,OP2.4] [F21-OP2.4]
4.2.6.3. Incorrect Placement of Shallow Foundations
(1) [F20-OS2.2] [F20-OP2.2,OP2.4] [F21-OP2.4]
4.2.6.4. Damaged Shallow Foundations
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1,OP2.4] [F22-OP2.4]
4.2.7.2. Design of Deep Foundations
(3) [F20-OS2.1,OS2.2] [F21-OS2.5] [F20-OP2.1,OP2.2] [F21,F22-OP2.4]
(5) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1,OP2.4] [F22-OP2.4]
(6) [F20-OP2.1,OP2.4]
4.2.7.3. Tolerance in Alignment and Location
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1,OP2.4] [F22-OP2.4]
4.2.7.4. Incorrect Alignment and Location
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1,OP2.4] [F22-OP2.4]
4.2.7.5. Installation of Deep Foundations
(1) [F81-OS2.1] [F21-OS2.2,OS2.6] (c) [F21-OP4.1]
(a),(b) [F81-OP2.1,OP2.4] [F21-OP2.2,OP2.4]
4.2.7.6. Damaged Deep Foundation Units
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division B 4-89
                                                                                     © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 4.5.1.1.
Division B
Table 4.5.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
4.2.8.2. Use of Existing Foundations
(1) [F20-OS2.1,OS2.2] [F20-OP2.1,OP2.2] [F22-OP2.4]
4.3.1.1. Design Basis for Wood
(1) [F22,F21,F80-OH4] [F20-OS2.1] [F80-OS2.3]
[F20-OP2.1] [F21,F22-OP2.4] [F80-OP2.3,OP2.4]
4.3.1.2. Glued-Laminated Members
(1) [F20-OS2.1]
[F20-OP2.1] [F21,F22-OP2.4]
[F21,F22-OH4]
4.3.2.1. Design Basis for Plain and Reinforced Masonry
(1) [F21,F22,F80-OH4] [F20-OS2.1] [F80-OS2.3]
[F20-OP2.1] [F22,F21-OP2.4] [F80-OP2.3,OP2.4]
4.3.3.1. Design Basis for Plain, Reinforced and Pre-stressed Concrete
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F80,F81-OS2.3]
[F20-OP2.1] [F21,F22-OP2.4] [F80,F81-OP2.3,OP2.4] [F21,F22,F80,F81-OH4]
4.3.4.1. Design Basis for Structural Steel
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F80-OS2.3]
[F20-OP2.1] [F20,F22-OP2.4] [F80-OP2.3,OP2.4] [F22,F80-OH4]
4.3.4.2. Design Basis for Cold-Formed Steel
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F80-OS2.3]
[F20-OP2.1] [F20,F22-OP2.4] [F80-OP2.3,OP2.4] [F22,F80-OH4]
4.3.5.1. Design Basis for Aluminum
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F80-OS2.3]
[F20-OP2.1] [F20,F22-OP2.4] [F80-OP2.3,OP2.4] [F22,F80-OH4]
4.3.6.1. Design Basis for Glass
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
4.4.1.1. Design Basis for Air-Supported Structures
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F80-OS2.3] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4] [F80-OP2.3] [F22-OH4]
4.4.2.1. Design Basis for Parking Structures and Repair Garages
(1) [F21,F61,F80-OS2.3] [F21,F61,F80-OP2.3,OP2.4]
[F21,F61,F80-OH4]
Table 4.5.1.1. (Continued) Notes to Table 4.5.1.1.:
(1) See Parts 2 and 3 of Division A.
4-90 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
                                            © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
Notes to Part 4 Structural Design
A-4.1.1.3.(1) Structural Integrity. The requirements of Part 4, including the CSA design standards, generally provide a satisfactory level of structural integrity. Additional considerations may, however, be required for building systems made of components of different materials, whose interconnection is not covered by existing CSA design standards, buildings outside the scope of existing CSA design standards, and buildings exposed to severe accidental loads such as vehicle impact or explosion. Further guidance can be found in the Commentary entitled Structural Integrity in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part
4 of Division B).”
A-4.1.1.3.(2) Serviceability. Information on serviceability can be found in the Commentary entitled Deflection and Vibration Criteria for Serviceability and Fatigue Limit States in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
A-4.1.1.5.(2) Structural Equivalents. Sentence 4.1.1.5.(2) provides for the use of design methods not specified in Part 4, including full-scale testing and model analogues. This provision is usually used to permit the acceptance of new and innovative structures or to permit the acceptance of model tests such as those used to determine structural behaviour, or snow or wind loads. Sentence 4.1.1.5.(2) specifically requires that the level of safety and performance be at least equivalent to that provided by design to Part 4 and requires that loads and designs conform to Section 4.1.
Sentence 4.1.1.5.(2) and the provision for alternative solutions stated in Clause 1.2.1.1.(1)(b) of Division A are not intended to allow structural design using design standards other than those listed in Part 4. The acceptance of structures that have been designed to other design standards would require the designer to prove to the appropriate authority that the structure provides the level of safety and performance required by Clause 1.2.1.1.(1)(b) of Division A. The equivalence of safety and performance can only be established by analyzing the structure for the loads and load factors set out in Section 4.1. and by demonstrating that the structure at least meets the requirements of the design standards listed in Sections 4.3. and 4.4.
A-4.1.2.1. Loads and Effects. Information on the definitions can be found in the Commentary entitled Limit States Design in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
A-4.1.2.1.(1) Temperature Changes. Information on effects due to temperature changes can be found in the Commentary entitled Effects of Deformations in Building Components in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
A-4.1.2.1.(3) Major Occupancies. In a building containing more than one major occupancy and classified in more than one Importance Category, the classification of each independent structural system shall be the same as for any part of the building that is dependent on that structural system and for the highest usage group according to Table 4.1.2.1.
These Notes are included for explanatory purposes only and do not form part of the requirements. The number that introduces each Note corresponds to the applicable requirement in this Part.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 4-91
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-Table 4.1.2.1. Division B
A-Table 4.1.2.1. Importance Categories for Buildings.
Low Importance Category Buildings
Low human-occupancy farm buildings are defined in the National Farm Building Code of Canada 1995. as having an occupant load of 1 person or less per 40 m2 of floor area. Minor storage buildings include only those storage buildings that represent a low direct or indirect hazard to human life in the event of structural failure, either because people are unlikely to be affected by structural failure, or because structural failure causing damage to materials or equipment does not present a direct threat to human life.
Buildings Containing Hazardous Materials
The following buildings contain sufficient quantities of toxic, explosive or other hazardous substances to be classified in the High Importance Category of use and occupancy:
• petrochemical facilities,
• fuelstoragefacilities(otherthanthoserequiredforpost-disasteruse),and • manufacturing or storage facilities for dangerous goods.
The following types of buildings may be classified in the Normal Importance Category: buildings that are equipped with secondary containment of toxic, explosive or other hazardous substances, including but not limited to, double-wall tanks, dikes of sufficient size to contain a spill, or other means to contain a spill
or a blast within the property boundary of the facility and prevent the release of harmful quantities of contaminants to the air, soil, groundwater, surface water or atmosphere, as the case may be.
A-4.1.3. Limit States Design. Information on limit states design can be found in the Commentary entitled Limit States Design in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
A-4.1.3.2.(2) Load Combinations.
Load Combination Equations
The load combinations in Tables 4.1.3.2.-A and 4.1.3.2.-B apply to most situations for loadbearing building structures. Guidance on special situations such as load combinations for fire resistance and building envelopes is given in the Commentary entitled Limit States Design in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
Load Cases and Crane Load Effects
The load combinations in Table 4.1.3.2.-A are to be evaluated for structures with crane load effects for the scenario where the crane loads are zero, and for structures without crane loads. The load combinations in Table 4.1.3.2.-B are to be evaluated for structures with crane loads for the scenario where the crane load effects are other than zero.
Crane Loads
Crane-supporting structures that have cranes in multiple parallel bays should be designed for the maximum vertical crane load with the cranes positioned for the most critical effect in conjunction with a lateral load with each crane in turn positioned for the most critical effect. For load combinations that include crane loads, additional guidance can be found in CISC/ICCA 2013, “Crane-Supporting Steel Structures: Design Guide.”
A-4.1.3.2.(4) Effects of Lateral Earth Pressure, H, Pre-stress, P, and Imposed Deformation, T, in Design Calculations.
Effects of Lateral Earth Pressure, H, in Design Calculations
For common building structures below ground level, such as walls, columns and frames, 1.5 H is added to load combinations 2 to 4. For cantilever retaining wall structures, see the Commentary entitled Limit States Design in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
Effects of Pre-stress, P, and Imposed Deformation, T, in Design Calculations
For structures and building envelopes designed in accordance with the requirements specified in the standards listed in Section 4.3., with the exception of Clauses 8 and 18 of CSA A23.3, “Design of Concrete
4-92
Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B A-4.1.5.1.(1)
Structures,” P and T need not be included in the load combinations of Table 4.1.3.2.-A. For structures not within the scope of the standards listed in Section 4.3., including building envelopes, P and T must be taken into account in the design calculations. For recommended load combinations including T, see the Commentary entitled Limit States Design in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
A-4.1.3.2.(5) Overturning, Uplift or Sliding. Information on overturning, uplift and sliding can be found in the Commentary entitled Limit States Design in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
A-4.1.3.3.(1) Failure due to Fatigue. Failure due to fatigue of building structures referred to in Section 4.3. and designed for serviceability in accordance with Article 4.1.3.6. is, in general, unlikely except for girders supporting heavily used cranes, on which Article 4.1.5.11. provides guidance.
A-4.1.3.3.(2) Vibration Effects. Guidance on vibration effects can be found in the Commentary entitled Deflection and Vibration Criteria for Serviceability and Fatigue Limit States in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
A-4.1.3.4.(1) Loads and Load Combinations for Serviceability. The loads and load combinations for serviceability depend on the serviceability limit states and on the properties of the structural materials. Information on loads and load combinations for the serviceability limit states, other than those controlled by deflection, can be found in the Commentary entitled Deflection and Vibration Criteria for Serviceability and Fatigue Limit States in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
A-4.1.3.5.(1) Deflections. Serviceability criteria for deflections that cause damage to non-structural building components can be found in the standards listed in Section 4.3. Information on deflections can be found in the Commentary entitled Deflection and Vibration Criteria for Serviceability and Fatigue Limit States in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).” Information on loads and load combinations for calculating deflection can be found in the Commentary entitled Limit States Design in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
A-4.1.3.5.(3) Lateral Deflection of Buildings. The limitation of 1/500 drift per storey may be exceeded if it can be established that the drift as calculated will not result in damage to non-structural elements. Information on lateral deflection can be found in the Commentary entitled Wind Load and Effects in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
A-4.1.3.6.(1) Floor Vibration. Information on floor vibration can be found in the Commentary entitled Deflection and Vibration Criteria for Serviceability and Fatigue Limit States in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).” Information on loads and load combinations for the calculation of vibration can be found in the Commentary entitled Limit States Design in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
A-4.1.3.6.(2) Dynamic Analyses of Floor Vibrations. Information on a dynamic analysis of floor vibrations from rhythmic activities can be found in the Commentary entitled Deflection and Vibration Criteria for Serviceability and Fatigue Limit States in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part
4 of Division B).”
A-4.1.3.6.(3) Lateral Vibration Under Wind Load. Information on lateral vibrations and accelerations under dynamic wind loads can be found in the Commentary entitled Wind Load and Effects in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
A-4.1.4.1.(6) Counteracting Dead Load Due to Soil. Examples of structures that traditionally employ the dead load of soil to resist loadings are pylon signs, tower structures, retaining walls, and deadmen, which resist wind uplift and overturning in light structures.
A-4.1.5.1.(1) Loads Due to Use of Floors and Roofs. In many areas of buildings, such as equipment areas, service rooms, factories, storage areas, warehouses, museums, and office filing areas, live loads due to their intended use may exceed the minimum specified loads listed in Table 4.1.5.3. In these instances, the probable live load shall be calculated and used as the specified live load for the design of that particular area.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 4-93
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-Table 4.1.5.3. Division B
A-Table 4.1.5.3. Considerations for Live Loads.
Arenas, Grandstands and Stadia
The designer should give special consideration to the effects of vibration.
Attics - Limited Accessibility
Attic live loading is not required when the ceiling below the attic consists of removable panels that permit access to the ceiling space without loading the ceiling supporting members. Attic live loading is not required in any area of the attic where the least dimension of the attic space is less than 500 mm.
Corridors, Aisles and Rows of Seats
The spaces between rows of seats are typically designed for the loads of the occupancy they serve. Rows of seats typically discharge into aisles that are designed for the loads used for the rows of seats. Corridors have a minimum width of 1 100 mm and may serve as collectors for aisles; they are therefore part of the exit system and are required to be designed for a minimum live load of 4.8 kPa.
Floor Areas That Could Be Used As Viewing Areas
Some interior balconies, mezzanines, corridors, lobbies and aisles that are not intended to be used by an assembly of people as viewing areas are sometimes used as such; consequently, they are subject to loadings much higher than those for the occupancies they serve. Floor areas that may be subject to such higher loads must, therefore, be designed for a loading of 4.8 kPa.
Lecture Halls and Classrooms
For the purposes of applying the requirements of Table 4.1.5.3., lecture halls with fixed seats are similar to theatres in configuration (the seats may have a writing tablet affixed to one arm). Classrooms are typically furnished with full-sized desks having separate or integrated seats.
Minimum Roof Live Load
Articles 4.1.5.3. and 4.1.5.10. stipulate a minimum uniform roof live load of 1.0 kPa and a minimum concentrated live load of 1.3 kN. These live loads are “use and occupancy loads” intended to provide for maintenance loadings: they are not reduced as a function of area or as a function of the roof slope due to their variability in distribution and location.
Vehicle Loads
A special study should be undertaken to determine the distributed loads to be used for the design of floors and areas used by vehicles exceeding 9 000 kg gross weight and of driveways and sidewalks over areaways and basements. Where appropriate, the designer should refer to CSA S6, “Canadian Highway Bridge Design Code.”
A-4.1.5.5. Loads on Exterior Areas. In Article 4.1.5.5., “accessible” refers to the lack of a physical barrier that prevents or restricts access by vehicles or persons to the site in the context of the specific use.
A-4.1.5.8. Tributary Area. Information on tributary area can be found in the Commentary entitled Live Loads in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
A-Table 4.1.5.9. Loads Due to Concentrations. Special study is required to determine concentrated loads for the design of floors and areas used by vehicles exceeding 9 000 kg gross weight, and of driveways and sidewalks over areaways and basements. Where appropriate the designer should refer to CSA S6, “Canadian Highway Bridge Design Code.”
A-4.1.5.11. Crane-Supporting Structures. Guidance on crane-supporting structures can be found in CSA S16, “Design of Steel Structures.”
A-4.1.5.14. and 4.1.5.15.(1) Design of Guards. In the design of guards, due consideration should be given to the durability of the members and their connections.
4-94 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B A-4.1.6.4.(3)
A-4.1.5.17. Loads on Firewalls. Information on loads on firewalls can be found in the Commentary entitled Structural Integrity of Firewalls in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part
4 of Division B).”
A-4.1.6.2. Coefficients for Snow Loads on Roofs. Information on coefficients for snow loads on roofs can be found in the Commentary entitled Snow Loads in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
A-4.1.6.2.(2) Basic Roof Snow Load Factor. Figure A-4.1.6.2.(2) shows the basic roof snow load factor, Cb, plotted against .
Figure A-4.1.6.2.(2)
Basic roof snow load factor, Cb
A-4.1.6.3.(2) Full and Partial Loading under Snow Loads. Information on full and partial snow loading on roofs can be found in the Commentary entitled Snow Loads in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
A-4.1.6.4.(1) Rain Loads. Information on rain loads can be found in the Commentary entitled Rain Loads in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
A-4.1.6.4.(3) Flow Control Drains. The National Plumbing Code of Canada 2015 (NPC) contains requirements regarding the use of flow control roof drains. The designer must ensure that the building complies with both the NPC and the NBC.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 4-95
    2.20 2.00 1.80 1.60 1.40 1.20 1.00 0.80
0 100
200 300
2 IcCw
400 500 600
EG01300A
 Cw = 1.0 Cw = 0.75 Cw = 0.5
 Cb
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

  A-4.1.6.7.(1) Division B
A-4.1.6.7.(1) Roof Projections. Elevator, air-conditioning and fan housings, small penthouses and wide chimneys are examples of roof projections.
Figure A-4.1.6.7.(1) Roof projections
A-4.1.6.7.(2) Values of Ca for Small Roof Projections. Calculating Ca in accordance with Article 4.1.6.5. rather than Sentence 4.1.6.7.(1) results in lower values for small projections.
A-4.1.6.9. Snow on Gable Roofs.
Figure A-4.1.6.9.
Load cases for gable roofs
Notes to Figure A-4.1.6.9.:
(1) CaseIIloadingdoesnotapplytogableroofswithslopesof15°orless,tosingle-sloped(shed)roofs,ortoflatroofs. (2) The value of Cw for load case I is as prescribed in Sentences 4.1.6.2.(3) and (4).
(3) Varies as a function of slope, α, as defined in Sentences 4.1.6.2.(5) and (6).
4-96 Division B Amended Page National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
      h
Ca0
Roof Projection
l0
x
x d = 23 l 0
   Drift
 EG01303B
      Upwind Side
Case I
Case II
Downwind Side
α
 Wind
      Load Case
Roof Slope, α
Factors
 Cw
Cs
Ca on upwind side
Ca on downwind side
I
0° ≤ α ≤ 90°
(2)
f(α)(3)
1.0
1.0
II(1)
15° < α ≤ 20° 20° < α ≤ 90°
1.0 1.0
f(α)(3)
0.0 0.0
0.25 + α/20 1.25
     EG01306B
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

  Division B A-4.1.7.5.(2) and (3)
A-4.1.7.1.(6) Computational Fluid Dynamics (CFD). It is not currently possible to verify the reliability and accuracy of CFD and no standards address it; as such, this method is not permitted to be used to determine specified wind loads.
A-4.1.7.2. Natural Frequency. Information on calculating the natural frequency of a building can be found in the Commentary entitled Wind Load and Effects in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
A-4.1.7.3.(5)(c) Procedure for Calculating Intermediate Ce. Information on calculating intermediate values of Ce between two exposures can be found in the Commentary entitled Wind Load and Effects in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
A-4.1.7.3.(10) Internal Gust Effect Factor, Cgi. The effect of building envelope flexibility can be included in the calculation of Cgi. See the Commentary entitled Wind Load and Effects in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
A-4.1.7.5.(2) and (3) Pressure Coefficients for Main Structural System on Rectangular Buildings.
Figure A-4.1.7.5.(2) and (3)
Values of Cp for main structural system on rectangular buildings
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Amended Page Division B 4-97
     On roof HD
Cp = −1.0 for D ≥ 1.0
Cp = −1.0 for x ≤ H }H < 1.0
X
CeCp
H
Cp = −0.27 (D + 0.88)
for 0.25 ≤ H < 1.0 D
On leeward face Cp = −0.3 for H < 0.25
           Cp = −0.5 for x > H Ce = Ce(H)
D
Wind
CeCp
Cp = −0.5 for HD ≥ 1.0 Ce = Ce(H/2)
                     On side walls
Ce = Ce(H) Cp = −0.7
    CeCp
     On windward face
          HH Cp = 0.6 for D < 0.25
CeCp
CeCp
          Cp = 0.27 (HD + 2)
for 0.25 ≤ H < 1.0 D
Cp = 0.8 for HD ≥ 1.0 Ce = Ce(Z)
Z
D
Wind
W
                         Elevation View of Building
Plan View of Building
EG01398A
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

  A-4.1.7.5.(4) Division B
A-4.1.7.5.(4) Pressure coefficients for roof and wall claddings and secondary structural supports of cladding on rectangular buildings.
Figure A-4.1.7.5.(4)
Values of Cp for roof and wall claddings and secondary structural supports of cladding on rectangular buildings
Notes to Figure A-4.1.7.5.(4):
(1) ThelargerofWorDistobeused.
(2) Whereverticalribsdeeperthan1marepresentonthewalls,thedimensions0.1Dand0.1Wmustbechangedto0.2Dand0.2Wandthe
negative value of Cp must be changed from –1.2 to –1.4.
A-4.1.7.8.(2) and (3) Exposure Factor for Dynamic Procedure.
4-98
Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Figure A-4.1.7.8.(2) and (3)
Exposure factor, Ce, for dynamic procedure Notes to Figure A-4.1.7.8.(2) and (3):
(1) (2)
Curve A represents Ce for open terrain, as defined in Clause 4.1.7.3.(5)(a). Curve B represents Ce for rough terrain, as defined in Clause 4.1.7.3.(5)(b).
  0.1(W or D)(1)
H
Z
Cp = +0.9 and –1.2(2)
Cp = –2.3
Cp = –1.5 W
0.2(W or D)(1) 0.1(W or D)(1)
0.2(W or D)(1)
0.1(W or D)(1)
     Cp = ±0.9
    Cp = –1.0
  D
  D
Elevation View of Building
Plan View of Building
EG01352A
   400 300
200
100 80
60 50 40
30 20
10 8 6
5 4
3 2
1
0.1 0.2
0.3 0.4
0.6 0.8 1
2 3 4
5 6
8 10
EG00914C
Exposure factor, Ce
  B
A
                                   Height above ground, m
         © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
A-4.1.7.8.(4)
A-4.1.7.8.(4) Peak Factor, Size Reduction Factor and Gust Energy Ratio.
Figure A-4.1.7.8.(4)-A Peak factor, gp
Figure A-4.1.7.8.(4)-B Size reduction factor, s
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division B 4-99
    6.0
5.0
4.0
3.0
2.0
1.0
0
0.02 0.040.060.1 0.2 0.40.60.81 2 4
Average Fluctuation Rate, ν cycles/second
EG00919C
  gp = 2 ln(νT) + 0.577 2 ln(νT)
T = 3600 s
                                   Peak Factor, gp
           w
 /H = 2.0
1.0
0.5
0.2
0.1
0
 s=π11
3 1+ 8fnH 1+10fnw
3VH VH
                                         5.0 4.0
3.0 2.0
1.0 0.7 0.5
0.3 0.2
0.1
0.001 0.002 0.004 0.007 0.01 0.02 0.03 0.05 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.5 1.0
Size Reduction Factor, s
EG00917B
      Reduced Frequency, fn VH H
               © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-4.1.7.9.(1) Division B
Figure A-4.1.7.8.(4)-C Gust energy ratio, F
A-4.1.7.9.(1) Full and Partial Wind Loading. Information on full and partial loading under wind loads can be found in the Commentary entitled Wind Load and Effects in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
Figure A-4.1.7.9.(1)
Full and partial wind loading
A-4.1.7.11. Exterior Ornamentations, Equipment and Appendages. Appendages may increase the overall forces in the design of the building structure and need to be accounted for.
4-100 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
   1.00 0.80
0.60
0.40 0.30
0.20
0.10 0.08
0.06
0.04 0.03
0.02
0.01
0.0001 0.001 0.01 0.1 1.0
Wave Number, fn/VH, waves/m EG00918B
  x 20 F=
(1 + x20 ) 4/3 x0 = (1220 fn/VH)
                                           Gust Energy Ratio, F
                pL Case A: full wind pressure applied in
both directions separately
pL or
pW
0.38pW
0.38pL
0.75pW
0.75pL
pW
0.75pW
0.75pW 0.75pL
0.75pL
Case C: 75% of full wind pressure applied
in both directions simultaneously
   pW
pW
pL or
   pL Case B: Case A wind pressure applied
only on parts of wall faces
Case D: 50% of Case C wind load removed from part of projected area
EG00942B
0.75pW 0.38pW
0.75pL 0.38pL
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B A-4.1.8.7.(1)
A-4.1.8.2.(1) Notation.
Definition of ex
Information on the calculation of torsional moments can be found in the Commentary entitled Design for Seismic Effects in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
Definition of W
Information on the definition of dead load, W, can be found in the Commentary entitled Design for Seismic Effects in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
A-4.1.8.3.(4) General Design of the SFRS. Information on the general design requirements for the SFRS can be found in the Commentary entitled Design for Seismic Effects in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
A-4.1.8.3.(6) General Design of Stiff Elements. Information on the general design requirements for stiff elements can be found in the Commentary entitled Design for Seismic Effects in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
A-4.1.8.3.(7)(b) and (c) Stiffness Imparted to the Structure from Elements Not Part of the SFRS. Information on stiffness imparted to the structure from elements not part of the SFRS can be found in the Commentary entitled Design for Seismic Effects in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
A-4.1.8.3.(8) Structural Modeling. Information on structural modeling can be found in the Commentary entitled Design for Seismic Effects in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
A-4.1.8.4.(3) and Table 4.1.8.4.-A Site Class. Information on Site Class can be found in the Commentary entitled Design for Seismic Effects in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
A-Table 4.1.8.5. Serviceability Limit States for Earthquake. Information on serviceability limit states for earthquake can be found in the Commentary entitled Design for Seismic Effects in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
A-Table 4.1.8.6. Structural Irregularities.
Structural Irregularities
Information on structural irregularities can be found in the Commentary entitled Design for Seismic Effects in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
Gravity-Induced Lateral Demand – Type 9 Irregularity
Uncoupled concrete and masonry shear walls where a large fraction of the overturning resistance is provided by axial compression, rather than through yielding of the longitudinal reinforcement, are less susceptible to amplified displacements due to gravity-induced lateral demands because the axial loads have a self-centering effect on the shear walls. Walls that are stronger than the foundation and other systems such as coupled walls, braced frames, and moment frames are more susceptible to amplified displacements due to gravity-induced lateral demands. A lower limit on α is thus specified for such systems. Further information on the impacts of gravity-induced lateral demands on the seismic response of buildings can be found in the Commentary entitled Design for Seismic Effects in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
A-4.1.8.7.(1) Dynamic Analysis Procedures. Information on dynamic analysis procedures can be found in the Commentary entitled Design for Seismic Effects in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 4-101
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-Table 4.1.8.9. Division B
A-Table 4.1.8.9. Industrial-Type Steel Structures. Guidance on the height limits, system restrictions and additional analysis and design requirements for steel SFRSs in industrial-type structures, intended essentially to support equipment, tanks or an industrial process, can be found in Annex M, Seismic Design of Industrial Steel Structures, of CSA S16, “Design of Steel Structures.”
A-4.1.8.9.(4) Vertical Variations in RdRo. Information on vertical variations in RdRo can be found in the Commentary entitled Design for Seismic Effects in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
A-4.1.8.9.(5) RdRo and Equivalent Systems. Information on the RdRo of equivalent systems can be found in the Commentary entitled Design for Seismic Effects in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
A-4.1.8.10.(4) Mid-rise Timber SFRS. Information on structural irregularities in mid-rise wood construction and on how to determine the number of storeys for application in Sentence 4.1.8.10.(4) can be found in the Commentary entitled Design for Seismic Effects in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
A-4.1.8.10.(5) Gravity-Induced Lateral Demand – Type 9 Irregularity. Structural systems that include components such as inclined columns or horizontal floor cantilevers can induce lateral force demands on the SFRS under gravity loads. Buildings with such gravity-induced lateral demands on the SFRS are more likely to experience severe damage during strong ground shaking due to their tendency to drift only in one direction, leading to large residual displacements or instability. To determine if a building is susceptible to amplification of displacements due to gravity-induced lateral demands, the lateral resistance of the yielding mechanism to resist earthquake forces alone, Qy, must be compared with the gravity-induced lateral demand, QG, at the same location. The force component selected for this comparison depends on the yielding mechanism for the SFRS. For example, for a coupled wall, the overturning moment resistance at the level of the expected plastic hinges should be compared with the overturning moment demand (at the same level) due to gravity loads alone, whereas for a steel-braced frame, the storey shear at the critical level of the yielding system should be compared with the storey shear demand (at the same level) due to the gravity loads alone. If the gravity-induced lateral demands exceed the limits prescribed in Sentence 4.1.8.10.(7), amplifications in seismic displacements due to gravity-induced lateral demands can only be identified through non-linear dynamic analyses using models that adequately represent the hysteretic behaviour of the SFRS. Further information
on the impacts of gravity-induced lateral demands on the seismic response of buildings can be found in the Commentary entitled Design for Seismic Effects in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
4.1.8.11.
(See Note A-4.1.8.10.(5).)
6) For buildings with a Type 9 irregularity as described in Table 4.1.8.6. and where IEFaSa(0.2) is equal to or greater than 0.5, deflections determined in accordance with Article 4.1.8.13. shall be multiplied by 1.2.
7) Structures where the value of α, as determined in accordance with Sentence (5), exceeds twice the limits specified in Table 4.1.8.6. for a Type 9 irregularity, and where IEFaSa(0.2) is equal to or greater than 0.5 are not permitted unless determined to be acceptable based on non-linear dynamic analysis studies. (See Note A-4.1.8.10.(7).)
Equivalent Static Force Procedure for Structures Satisfying the Conditions of Article 4.1.8.7.
1) The static loading due to earthquake motion shall be determined according to the procedures given in this Article.
2) Except as provided in Sentence (12), the minimum lateral earthquake force, V, shall be calculated using the following formula:
except
a) for walls, coupled walls and wall-frame systems, V shall not be less than
b) for moment-resisting frames, braced frames, and other systems, V shall not be less than
c) for buildings located on a site other than Class F and having an SFRS with an Rd equal to or greater than 1.5, V need not be greater than the larger of
3) Except as provided in Sentence (4), the fundamental lateral period, Ta, in the direction under consideration in Sentence (2), shall be determined as:
a) for moment-resisting frames that resist 100% of the required lateral forces and where the frame is not enclosed by or adjoined by more rigid elements that would tend to prevent the frame from resisting lateral forces, and where hn is in metres:
i) 0.085 (hn)3/4 for steel moment frames,
5) The ratio, α, for a Type 9 irregularity as described in Table 4.1.8.6. shall be determined independently for each orthogonal direction using the following equation:
where QG
Qy
= gravity-induced lateral demand on the SFRS at the critical level of the yielding system, and
= the resistance of the yielding mechanism required to resist the minimum earthquake loads, which need not be taken as less than Ro multiplied by the minimum lateral earthquake force as determined in Article 4.1.8.11. or 4.1.8.12., as appropriate.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 4-57
  © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022
 4.1.8.11.
Division B
4-58 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
ii) 0.075 (hn)3/4 for concrete moment frames, or iii) 0.1Nforothermomentframes,
b) 0.025hn for braced frames where hn is in metres,
c) 0.05 (hn)3/4 for shear wall and other structures where hn is in metres, or
d) other established methods of mechanics using a structural model that complies with the requirements of Sentence 4.1.8.3.(8), except that
i) for moment-resisting frames, Ta shall not be taken greater
than 1.5 times that determined in Clause (a),
ii) for braced frames, Ta shall not be taken greater than 2.0
times that determined in Clause (b),
iii) for shear wall structures, Ta shall not be taken greater than
2.0 times that determined in Clause (c),
iv) for other structures, Ta shall not be taken greater than that
determined in Clause (c), and
v) for the purpose of calculating the deflections, the period
without the upper limit specified in Subclauses (d)(i)
to (d)(iv) may be used, except that, for walls, coupled walls and wall-frame systems, Ta shall not exceed 4.0 s, and for moment-resisting frames, braced frames, and other systems, Ta shall not exceed 2.0 s.
(See Note A-4.1.8.11.(3).)
4) For single-storey buildings with steel deck or wood roof diaphragms, the fundamental lateral period, Ta, in the direction under consideration is permitted to be taken as
a) 0.05 (hn)3/4 + 0.004 L for shear walls,
b) 0.035 hn + 0.004 L for steel moment frames and steel braced frames, or
c) the value obtained from methods of mechanics using a structural model that complies with the requirements of Sentence 4.1.8.3.(8), except that Ta shall not be greater than 1.5 times the value determined in Clause (a) or (b), as applicable,
where L is the shortest length of the diaphragm, in m, between adjacent vertical elements of the SFRS in the direction perpendicular to the direction under consideration.
5) The weight, W, of the building shall be calculated using the following formula:
6) The higher mode factor, Mv, and its associated base overturning moment
reduction factor, J, shall conform to Table 4.1.8.11.
7) The total lateral seismic force, V, shall be distributed such that a portion, Ft, shall be assumed to be concentrated at the top of the building, where Ft is equal to 0.07 TaV but need not exceed 0.25 V and may be considered as zero where the fundamental lateral period, Ta, does not exceed 0.7 s; the remainder, V - Ft, shall be distributed along the height of the building, including the top level, in accordance with the following formula:
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
4.1.8.11.
S(0.2)/S(5.0)
Mv forTa ≤0.5
Mv forTa =1.0
1 1 1 1
1 1 1 1
1 1 1 1.04
1
1 1.19 1.55
Mv forTa =2.0 Mv forTa ≥5.0 JforTa ≤0.5
JforTa =1.0
0.97 0.93 0.87 0.80
0.97 0.93 0.87 0.80
0.95 0.85 0.79 0.71
0.97 0.80 0.63 0.51
0.97 0.80 0.63 0.51
JforTa =2.0
JforTa ≥5.0
5 1 20 1 40 1 65 1
5 1 20 1 40 1 65 1
5 1 20 1 40 1 65 1
5 1 20 1 40 1 65 1
5 1 20 1 40 1 65 1
Notes to Table 4.1.8.11.:
(1) For intermediate values of
(2) For intermediate values of accordance with Note (1).
(3) For intermediate values of accordance with Note (1).
Moment-Resisting Frames 1 (5)
1 (5) 1 (5)
1.03 (5)
Coupled Walls(6) 1 1(7)
1 1 1 1
1 1 1 1
1 1 1 1
1 1 1 1
0.92 (5) 0.85 (5) 0.78 (5) 0.70 (5)
Table 4.1.8.11.
Higher Mode Factor, Mv, and Base Overturning Moment Reduction Factor, J(1)(2)(3)(4) Forming Part of Sentence 4.1.8.11.(6)
1
1 1.03
1 1 1 1.07
1 1.18 1.75 2.25
1.08(7) 1.30(7) 1.49(7)
Braced Frames (5)
(5) (5) (5)
Walls, Wall Frame Systems 1.25(7)
2.30(7) 3.70(7) 4.65(7)
0.92 0.85 0.78 0.70
0.80(8) 0.65(8) 0.53(8) 0.46(8)
Other Systems 1 1 (5)
0.85 (5) 0.60 (5) 0.46 (5) 0.39 (5)
1 1.18 1.19 1.75 1.55 2.25
1 (5) 1
(5) 1 (5) 1
the spectral ratio S(0.2)/S(5.0), Mv and J shall be obtained by linear interpolation.
the fundamental lateral period, Ta, S(Ta)Mv shall be obtained by linear interpolation using the values of Mv obtained in
the fundamental lateral period, Ta, J shall be obtained by linear interpolation using the values of J obtained in
(4) For a combination of different seismic force resisting systems (SFRS) not given in Table 4.1.8.11. that are in the same direction under consideration, use the highest Mv factor of all the SFRS and the corresponding value of J.
(5) For fundamental lateral periods, Ta , greater than 2.0 s, use the 2.0 s values obtained in accordance with Note (1). See Clause 4.1.8.11.(2)(b).
(6) A “coupled” wall is a wall system with coupling beams, where at least 66% of the base overturning moment resisted by the wall system is carried by
the axial tension and compression forces resulting from shear in the coupling beams.
(7) For fundamental lateral periods, Ta, greater than 4.0 s, use the 4.0 s values of S(Ta)Mv obtained by interpolation between 2.0 s and 5.0 s using the
value of Mv obtained in accordance with Note (1). See Clause 4.1.8.11.(2)(a).
(8) For fundamental lateral periods, Ta, greater than 4.0 s, use the 4.0 s values of J obtained by interpolation between 2.0 s and 5.0 s using the value
of J obtained in accordance with Note (1). See Clause 4.1.8.11.(2)(a).
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 4-59
0.89 (5) 0.78 (5) 0.70 (5) 0.66 (5)
0.85 0.60 0.46 0.39
0.55(8) 0.35(8) 0.28(8) 0.23(8)
             © His Majesty t 4.1.8.11.
(See Note A-4.1.8.10.(5).)
6) For buildings with a Type 9 irregularity as described in Table 4.1.8.6. and where IEFaSa(0.2) is equal to or greater than 0.5, deflections determined in accordance with Article 4.1.8.13. shall be multiplied by 1.2.
7) Structures where the value of α, as determined in accordance with Sentence (5), exceeds twice the limits specified in Table 4.1.8.6. for a Type 9 irregularity, and where IEFaSa(0.2) is equal to or greater than 0.5 are not permitted unless determined to be acceptable based on non-linear dynamic analysis studies. (See Note A-4.1.8.10.(7).)
Equivalent Static Force Procedure for Structures Satisfying the Conditions of Article 4.1.8.7.
1) The static loading due to earthquake motion shall be determined according to the procedures given in this Article.
2) Except as provided in Sentence (12), the minimum lateral earthquake force, V, shall be calculated using the following formula:
except
a) for walls, coupled walls and wall-frame systems, V shall not be less than
b) for moment-resisting frames, braced frames, and other systems, V shall not be less than
c) for buildings located on a site other than Class F and having an SFRS with an Rd equal to or greater than 1.5, V need not be greater than the larger of
3) Except as provided in Sentence (4), the fundamental lateral period, Ta, in the direction under consideration in Sentence (2), shall be determined as:
a) for moment-resisting frames that resist 100% of the required lateral forces and where the frame is not enclosed by or adjoined by more rigid elements that would tend to prevent the frame from resisting lateral forces, and where hn is in metres:
i) 0.085 (hn)3/4 for steel moment frames,
5) The ratio, α, for a Type 9 irregularity as described in Table 4.1.8.6. shall be determined independently for each orthogonal direction using the following equation:
where QG
Qy
= gravity-induced lateral demand on the SFRS at the critical level of the yielding system, and
= the resistance of the yielding mechanism required to resist the minimum earthquake loads, which need not be taken as less than Ro multiplied by the minimum lateral earthquake force as determined in Article 4.1.8.11. or 4.1.8.12., as appropriate.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 4-57
  © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022
 4.1.8.11.
Division B
4-58 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
ii) 0.075 (hn)3/4 for concrete moment frames, or iii) 0.1Nforothermomentframes,
b) 0.025hn for braced frames where hn is in metres,
c) 0.05 (hn)3/4 for shear wall and other structures where hn is in metres, or
d) other established methods of mechanics using a structural model that complies with the requirements of Sentence 4.1.8.3.(8), except that
i) for moment-resisting frames, Ta shall not be taken greater
than 1.5 times that determined in Clause (a),
ii) for braced frames, Ta shall not be taken greater than 2.0
times that determined in Clause (b),
iii) for shear wall structures, Ta shall not be taken greater than
2.0 times that determined in Clause (c),
iv) for other structures, Ta shall not be taken greater than that
determined in Clause (c), and
v) for the purpose of calculating the deflections, the period
without the upper limit specified in Subclauses (d)(i)
to (d)(iv) may be used, except that, for walls, coupled walls and wall-frame systems, Ta shall not exceed 4.0 s, and for moment-resisting frames, braced frames, and other systems, Ta shall not exceed 2.0 s.
(See Note A-4.1.8.11.(3).)
4) For single-storey buildings with steel deck or wood roof diaphragms, the fundamental lateral period, Ta, in the direction under consideration is permitted to be taken as
a) 0.05 (hn)3/4 + 0.004 L for shear walls,
b) 0.035 hn + 0.004 L for steel moment frames and steel braced frames, or
c) the value obtained from methods of mechanics using a structural model that complies with the requirements of Sentence 4.1.8.3.(8), except that Ta shall not be greater than 1.5 times the value determined in Clause (a) or (b), as applicable,
where L is the shortest length of the diaphragm, in m, between adjacent vertical elements of the SFRS in the direction perpendicular to the direction under consideration.
5) The weight, W, of the building shall be calculated using the following formula:
6) The higher mode factor, Mv, and its associated base overturning moment
reduction factor, J, shall conform to Table 4.1.8.11.
7) The total lateral seismic force, V, shall be distributed such that a portion, Ft, shall be assumed to be concentrated at the top of the building, where Ft is equal to 0.07 TaV but need not exceed 0.25 V and may be considered as zero where the fundamental lateral period, Ta, does not exceed 0.7 s; the remainder, V - Ft, shall be distributed along the height of the building, including the top level, in accordance with the following formula:
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
4.1.8.11.
S(0.2)/S(5.0)
Mv forTa ≤0.5
Mv forTa =1.0
1 1 1 1
1 1 1 1
1 1 1 1.04
1
1 1.19 1.55
Mv forTa =2.0 Mv forTa ≥5.0 JforTa ≤0.5
JforTa =1.0
0.97 0.93 0.87 0.80
0.97 0.93 0.87 0.80
0.95 0.85 0.79 0.71
0.97 0.80 0.63 0.51
0.97 0.80 0.63 0.51
JforTa =2.0
JforTa ≥5.0
5 1 20 1 40 1 65 1
5 1 20 1 40 1 65 1
5 1 20 1 40 1 65 1
5 1 20 1 40 1 65 1
5 1 20 1 40 1 65 1
Notes to Table 4.1.8.11.:
(1) For intermediate values of
(2) For intermediate values of accordance with Note (1).
(3) For intermediate values of accordance with Note (1).
Moment-Resisting Frames 1 (5)
1 (5) 1 (5)
1.03 (5)
Coupled Walls(6) 1 1(7)
1 1 1 1
1 1 1 1
1 1 1 1
1 1 1 1
0.92 (5) 0.85 (5) 0.78 (5) 0.70 (5)
Table 4.1.8.11.
Higher Mode Factor, Mv, and Base Overturning Moment Reduction Factor, J(1)(2)(3)(4) Forming Part of Sentence 4.1.8.11.(6)
1
1 1.03
1 1 1 1.07
1 1.18 1.75 2.25
1.08(7) 1.30(7) 1.49(7)
Braced Frames (5)
(5) (5) (5)
Walls, Wall Frame Systems 1.25(7)
2.30(7) 3.70(7) 4.65(7)
0.92 0.85 0.78 0.70
0.80(8) 0.65(8) 0.53(8) 0.46(8)
Other Systems 1 1 (5)
0.85 (5) 0.60 (5) 0.46 (5) 0.39 (5)
1 1.18 1.19 1.75 1.55 2.25
1 (5) 1
(5) 1 (5) 1
the spectral ratio S(0.2)/S(5.0), Mv and J shall be obtained by linear interpolation.
the fundamental lateral period, Ta, S(Ta)Mv shall be obtained by linear interpolation using the values of Mv obtained in
the fundamental lateral period, Ta, J shall be obtained by linear interpolation using the values of J obtained in
(4) For a combination of different seismic force resisting systems (SFRS) not given in Table 4.1.8.11. that are in the same direction under consideration, use the highest Mv factor of all the SFRS and the corresponding value of J.
(5) For fundamental lateral periods, Ta , greater than 2.0 s, use the 2.0 s values obtained in accordance with Note (1). See Clause 4.1.8.11.(2)(b).
(6) A “coupled” wall is a wall system with coupling beams, where at least 66% of the base overturning moment resisted by the wall system is carried by
the axial tension and compression forces resulting from shear in the coupling beams.
(7) For fundamental lateral periods, Ta, greater than 4.0 s, use the 4.0 s values of S(Ta)Mv obtained by interpolation between 2.0 s and 5.0 s using the
value of Mv obtained in accordance with Note (1). See Clause 4.1.8.11.(2)(a).
(8) For fundamental lateral periods, Ta, greater than 4.0 s, use the 4.0 s values of J obtained by interpolation between 2.0 s and 5.0 s using the value
of J obtained in accordance with Note (1). See Clause 4.1.8.11.(2)(a).
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 4-59
0.89 (5) 0.78 (5) 0.70 (5) 0.66 (5)
0.85 0.60 0.46 0.39
0.55(8) 0.35(8) 0.28(8) 0.23(8)
             © His Majesty t4.1.8.11.
(See Note A-4.1.8.10.(5).)
6) For buildings with a Type 9 irregularity as described in Table 4.1.8.6. and where IEFaSa(0.2) is equal to or greater than 0.5, deflections determined in accordance with Article 4.1.8.13. shall be multiplied by 1.2.
7) Structures where the value of α, as determined in accordance with Sentence (5), exceeds twice the limits specified in Table 4.1.8.6. for a Type 9 irregularity, and where IEFaSa(0.2) is equal to or greater than 0.5 are not permitted unless determined to be acceptable based on non-linear dynamic analysis studies. (See Note A-4.1.8.10.(7).)
Equivalent Static Force Procedure for Structures Satisfying the Conditions of Article 4.1.8.7.
1) The static loading due to earthquake motion shall be determined according to the procedures given in this Article.
2) Except as provided in Sentence (12), the minimum lateral earthquake force, V, shall be calculated using the following formula:
except
a) for walls, coupled walls and wall-frame systems, V shall not be less than
b) for moment-resisting frames, braced frames, and other systems, V shall not be less than
c) for buildings located on a site other than Class F and having an SFRS with an Rd equal to or greater than 1.5, V need not be greater than the larger of
3) Except as provided in Sentence (4), the fundamental lateral period, Ta, in the direction under consideration in Sentence (2), shall be determined as:
a) for moment-resisting frames that resist 100% of the required lateral forces and where the frame is not enclosed by or adjoined by more rigid elements that would tend to prevent the frame from resisting lateral forces, and where hn is in metres:
i) 0.085 (hn)3/4 for steel moment frames,
5) The ratio, α, for a Type 9 irregularity as described in Table 4.1.8.6. shall be determined independently for each orthogonal direction using the following equation:
where QG
Qy
= gravity-induced lateral demand on the SFRS at the critical level of the yielding system, and
= the resistance of the yielding mechanism required to resist the minimum earthquake loads, which need not be taken as less than Ro multiplied by the minimum lateral earthquake force as determined in Article 4.1.8.11. or 4.1.8.12., as appropriate.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 4-57
  © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022
 4.1.8.11.
Division B
4-58 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
ii) 0.075 (hn)3/4 for concrete moment frames, or iii) 0.1Nforothermomentframes,
b) 0.025hn for braced frames where hn is in metres,
c) 0.05 (hn)3/4 for shear wall and other structures where hn is in metres, or
d) other established methods of mechanics using a structural model that complies with the requirements of Sentence 4.1.8.3.(8), except that
i) for moment-resisting frames, Ta shall not be taken greater
than 1.5 times that determined in Clause (a),
ii) for braced frames, Ta shall not be taken greater than 2.0
times that determined in Clause (b),
iii) for shear wall structures, Ta shall not be taken greater than
2.0 times that determined in Clause (c),
iv) for other structures, Ta shall not be taken greater than that
determined in Clause (c), and
v) for the purpose of calculating the deflections, the period
without the upper limit specified in Subclauses (d)(i)
to (d)(iv) may be used, except that, for walls, coupled walls and wall-frame systems, Ta shall not exceed 4.0 s, and for moment-resisting frames, braced frames, and other systems, Ta shall not exceed 2.0 s.
(See Note A-4.1.8.11.(3).)
4) For single-storey buildings with steel deck or wood roof diaphragms, the fundamental lateral period, Ta, in the direction under consideration is permitted to be taken as
a) 0.05 (hn)3/4 + 0.004 L for shear walls,
b) 0.035 hn + 0.004 L for steel moment frames and steel braced frames, or
c) the value obtained from methods of mechanics using a structural model that complies with the requirements of Sentence 4.1.8.3.(8), except that Ta shall not be greater than 1.5 times the value determined in Clause (a) or (b), as applicable,
where L is the shortest length of the diaphragm, in m, between adjacent vertical elements of the SFRS in the direction perpendicular to the direction under consideration.
5) The weight, W, of the building shall be calculated using the following formula:
6) The higher mode factor, Mv, and its associated base overturning moment
reduction factor, J, shall conform to Table 4.1.8.11.
7) The total lateral seismic force, V, shall be distributed such that a portion, Ft, shall be assumed to be concentrated at the top of the building, where Ft is equal to 0.07 TaV but need not exceed 0.25 V and may be considered as zero where the fundamental lateral period, Ta, does not exceed 0.7 s; the remainder, V - Ft, shall be distributed along the height of the building, including the top level, in accordance with the following formula:
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
4.1.8.11.
S(0.2)/S(5.0)
Mv forTa ≤0.5
Mv forTa =1.0
1 1 1 1
1 1 1 1
1 1 1 1.04
1
1 1.19 1.55
Mv forTa =2.0 Mv forTa ≥5.0 JforTa ≤0.5
JforTa =1.0
0.97 0.93 0.87 0.80
0.97 0.93 0.87 0.80
0.95 0.85 0.79 0.71
0.97 0.80 0.63 0.51
0.97 0.80 0.63 0.51
JforTa =2.0
JforTa ≥5.0
5 1 20 1 40 1 65 1
5 1 20 1 40 1 65 1
5 1 20 1 40 1 65 1
5 1 20 1 40 1 65 1
5 1 20 1 40 1 65 1
Notes to Table 4.1.8.11.:
(1) For intermediate values of
(2) For intermediate values of accordance with Note (1).
(3) For intermediate values of accordance with Note (1).
Moment-Resisting Frames 1 (5)
1 (5) 1 (5)
1.03 (5)
Coupled Walls(6) 1 1(7)
1 1 1 1
1 1 1 1
1 1 1 1
1 1 1 1
0.92 (5) 0.85 (5) 0.78 (5) 0.70 (5)
Table 4.1.8.11.
Higher Mode Factor, Mv, and Base Overturning Moment Reduction Factor, J(1)(2)(3)(4) Forming Part of Sentence 4.1.8.11.(6)
1
1 1.03
1 1 1 1.07
1 1.18 1.75 2.25
1.08(7) 1.30(7) 1.49(7)
Braced Frames (5)
(5) (5) (5)
Walls, Wall Frame Systems 1.25(7)
2.30(7) 3.70(7) 4.65(7)
0.92 0.85 0.78 0.70
0.80(8) 0.65(8) 0.53(8) 0.46(8)
Other Systems 1 1 (5)
0.85 (5) 0.60 (5) 0.46 (5) 0.39 (5)
1 1.18 1.19 1.75 1.55 2.25
1 (5) 1
(5) 1 (5) 1
the spectral ratio S(0.2)/S(5.0), Mv and J shall be obtained by linear interpolation.
the fundamental lateral period, Ta, S(Ta)Mv shall be obtained by linear interpolation using the values of Mv obtained in
the fundamental lateral period, Ta, J shall be obtained by linear interpolation using the values of J obtained in
(4) For a combination of different seismic force resisting systems (SFRS) not given in Table 4.1.8.11. that are in the same direction under consideration, use the highest Mv factor of all the SFRS and the corresponding value of J.
(5) For fundamental lateral periods, Ta , greater than 2.0 s, use the 2.0 s values obtained in accordance with Note (1). See Clause 4.1.8.11.(2)(b).
(6) A “coupled” wall is a wall system with coupling beams, where at least 66% of the base overturning moment resisted by the wall system is carried by
the axial tension and compression forces resulting from shear in the coupling beams.
(7) For fundamental lateral periods, Ta, greater than 4.0 s, use the 4.0 s values of S(Ta)Mv obtained by interpolation between 2.0 s and 5.0 s using the
value of Mv obtained in accordance with Note (1). See Clause 4.1.8.11.(2)(a).
(8) For fundamental lateral periods, Ta, greater than 4.0 s, use the 4.0 s values of J obtained by interpolation between 2.0 s and 5.0 s using the value
of J obtained in accordance with Note (1). See Clause 4.1.8.11.(2)(a).
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 4-59
0.89 (5) 0.78 (5) 0.70 (5) 0.66 (5)
0.85 0.60 0.46 0.39
0.55(8) 0.35(8) 0.28(8) 0.23(8)
             © His Majesty t
4.1.8.11.
(See Note A-4.1.8.10.(5).)
6) For buildings with a Type 9 irregularity as described in Table 4.1.8.6. and where IEFaSa(0.2) is equal to or greater than 0.5, deflections determined in accordance with Article 4.1.8.13. shall be multiplied by 1.2.
7) Structures where the value of α, as determined in accordance with Sentence (5), exceeds twice the limits specified in Table 4.1.8.6. for a Type 9 irregularity, and where IEFaSa(0.2) is equal to or greater than 0.5 are not permitted unless determined to be acceptable based on non-linear dynamic analysis studies. (See Note A-4.1.8.10.(7).)
Equivalent Static Force Procedure for Structures Satisfying the Conditions of Article 4.1.8.7.
1) The static loading due to earthquake motion shall be determined according to the procedures given in this Article.
2) Except as provided in Sentence (12), the minimum lateral earthquake force, V, shall be calculated using the following formula:
except
a) for walls, coupled walls and wall-frame systems, V shall not be less than
b) for moment-resisting frames, braced frames, and other systems, V shall not be less than
c) for buildings located on a site other than Class F and having an SFRS with an Rd equal to or greater than 1.5, V need not be greater than the larger of
3) Except as provided in Sentence (4), the fundamental lateral period, Ta, in the direction under consideration in Sentence (2), shall be determined as:
a) for moment-resisting frames that resist 100% of the required lateral forces and where the frame is not enclosed by or adjoined by more rigid elements that would tend to prevent the frame from resisting lateral forces, and where hn is in metres:
i) 0.085 (hn)3/4 for steel moment frames,
5) The ratio, α, for a Type 9 irregularity as described in Table 4.1.8.6. shall be determined independently for each orthogonal direction using the following equation:
where QG
Qy
= gravity-induced lateral demand on the SFRS at the critical level of the yielding system, and
= the resistance of the yielding mechanism required to resist the minimum earthquake loads, which need not be taken as less than Ro multiplied by the minimum lateral earthquake force as determined in Article 4.1.8.11. or 4.1.8.12., as appropriate.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 4-57
  © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022
 4.1.8.11.
Division B
4-58 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
ii) 0.075 (hn)3/4 for concrete moment frames, or iii) 0.1Nforothermomentframes,
b) 0.025hn for braced frames where hn is in metres,
c) 0.05 (hn)3/4 for shear wall and other structures where hn is in metres, or
d) other established methods of mechanics using a structural model that complies with the requirements of Sentence 4.1.8.3.(8), except that
i) for moment-resisting frames, Ta shall not be taken greater
than 1.5 times that determined in Clause (a),
ii) for braced frames, Ta shall not be taken greater than 2.0
times that determined in Clause (b),
iii) for shear wall structures, Ta shall not be taken greater than
2.0 times that determined in Clause (c),
iv) for other structures, Ta shall not be taken greater than that
determined in Clause (c), and
v) for the purpose of calculating the deflections, the period
without the upper limit specified in Subclauses (d)(i)
to (d)(iv) may be used, except that, for walls, coupled walls and wall-frame systems, Ta shall not exceed 4.0 s, and for moment-resisting frames, braced frames, and other systems, Ta shall not exceed 2.0 s.
(See Note A-4.1.8.11.(3).)
4) For single-storey buildings with steel deck or wood roof diaphragms, the fundamental lateral period, Ta, in the direction under consideration is permitted to be taken as
a) 0.05 (hn)3/4 + 0.004 L for shear walls,
b) 0.035 hn + 0.004 L for steel moment frames and steel braced frames, or
c) the value obtained from methods of mechanics using a structural model that complies with the requirements of Sentence 4.1.8.3.(8), except that Ta shall not be greater than 1.5 times the value determined in Clause (a) or (b), as applicable,
where L is the shortest length of the diaphragm, in m, between adjacent vertical elements of the SFRS in the direction perpendicular to the direction under consideration.
5) The weight, W, of the building shall be calculated using the following formula:
6) The higher mode factor, Mv, and its associated base overturning moment
reduction factor, J, shall conform to Table 4.1.8.11.
7) The total lateral seismic force, V, shall be distributed such that a portion, Ft, shall be assumed to be concentrated at the top of the building, where Ft is equal to 0.07 TaV but need not exceed 0.25 V and may be considered as zero where the fundamental lateral period, Ta, does not exceed 0.7 s; the remainder, V - Ft, shall be distributed along the height of the building, including the top level, in accordance with the following formula:
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
4.1.8.11.
S(0.2)/S(5.0)
Mv forTa ≤0.5
Mv forTa =1.0
1 1 1 1
1 1 1 1
1 1 1 1.04
1
1 1.19 1.55
Mv forTa =2.0 Mv forTa ≥5.0 JforTa ≤0.5
JforTa =1.0
0.97 0.93 0.87 0.80
0.97 0.93 0.87 0.80
0.95 0.85 0.79 0.71
0.97 0.80 0.63 0.51
0.97 0.80 0.63 0.51
JforTa =2.0
JforTa ≥5.0
5 1 20 1 40 1 65 1
5 1 20 1 40 1 65 1
5 1 20 1 40 1 65 1
5 1 20 1 40 1 65 1
5 1 20 1 40 1 65 1
Notes to Table 4.1.8.11.:
(1) For intermediate values of
(2) For intermediate values of accordance with Note (1).
(3) For intermediate values of accordance with Note (1).
Moment-Resisting Frames 1 (5)
1 (5) 1 (5)
1.03 (5)
Coupled Walls(6) 1 1(7)
1 1 1 1
1 1 1 1
1 1 1 1
1 1 1 1
0.92 (5) 0.85 (5) 0.78 (5) 0.70 (5)
Table 4.1.8.11.
Higher Mode Factor, Mv, and Base Overturning Moment Reduction Factor, J(1)(2)(3)(4) Forming Part of Sentence 4.1.8.11.(6)
1
1 1.03
1 1 1 1.07
1 1.18 1.75 2.25
1.08(7) 1.30(7) 1.49(7)
Braced Frames (5)
(5) (5) (5)
Walls, Wall Frame Systems 1.25(7)
2.30(7) 3.70(7) 4.65(7)
0.92 0.85 0.78 0.70
0.80(8) 0.65(8) 0.53(8) 0.46(8)
Other Systems 1 1 (5)
0.85 (5) 0.60 (5) 0.46 (5) 0.39 (5)
1 1.18 1.19 1.75 1.55 2.25
1 (5) 1
(5) 1 (5) 1
the spectral ratio S(0.2)/S(5.0), Mv and J shall be obtained by linear interpolation.
the fundamental lateral period, Ta, S(Ta)Mv shall be obtained by linear interpolation using the values of Mv obtained in
the fundamental lateral period, Ta, J shall be obtained by linear interpolation using the values of J obtained in
(4) For a combination of different seismic force resisting systems (SFRS) not given in Table 4.1.8.11. that are in the same direction under consideration, use the highest Mv factor of all the SFRS and the corresponding value of J.
(5) For fundamental lateral periods, Ta , greater than 2.0 s, use the 2.0 s values obtained in accordance with Note (1). See Clause 4.1.8.11.(2)(b).
(6) A “coupled” wall is a wall system with coupling beams, where at least 66% of the base overturning moment resisted by the wall system is carried by
the axial tension and compression forces resulting from shear in the coupling beams.
(7) For fundamental lateral periods, Ta, greater than 4.0 s, use the 4.0 s values of S(Ta)Mv obtained by interpolation between 2.0 s and 5.0 s using the
value of Mv obtained in accordance with Note (1). See Clause 4.1.8.11.(2)(a).
(8) For fundamental lateral periods, Ta, greater than 4.0 s, use the 4.0 s values of J obtained by interpolation between 2.0 s and 5.0 s using the value
of J obtained in accordance with Note (1). See Clause 4.1.8.11.(2)(a).
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 4-59
0.89 (5) 0.78 (5) 0.70 (5) 0.66 (5)
0.85 0.60 0.46 0.39
0.55(8) 0.35(8) 0.28(8) 0.23(8)
             © His Majesty t
8) The structure shall be designed to resist overturning effects caused by the earthquake forces determined in Sentence (7) and the overturning moment at level x, Mx, shall be determined using the following equation:
where
Jx = 1.0 for hx ≥ 0.6hn, and
Jx =J+(1-J)(hx /0.6hn)forhx <0.6hn where
J =baseoverturningmomentreductionfactorconformingtoTable4.1.8.11.
Torsional effects that are concurrent with the effects of the forces mentioned in Sentence (7) and are caused by the simultaneous actions of the following torsional moments shall be considered in the design of the structure according to Sentence (11):
a) torsional moments introduced by eccentricity between the centres of mass and resistance and their dynamic amplification, and
b) torsional moments due to accidental eccentricities.
10) Torsional sensitivity shall be determined by calculating the ratio Bx for each level x according to the following equation for each orthogonal direction determined independently:
where
B = maximum of all values of Bx in both orthogonal directions, except that the
Bx for one-storey penthouses with a weight less than 10% of the level below
need not be considered,
δmax = maximum storey displacement at the extreme points of the structure, at level
x in the direction of the earthquake induced by the equivalent static forces
acting at distances ± 0.10 Dnx from the centres of mass at each floor, and δave = average of the displacements at the extreme points of the structure at level x
produced by the above-mentioned forces.
11) Torsional effects shall be accounted for as follows:
a) for a building with B ≤ 1.7 or where IEFaSa(0.2) is less than 0.35, by applying
torsional moments about a vertical axis at each level throughout the building, derived for each of the following load cases considered separately:
i) Tx = Fx(ex + 0.10 Dnx), and ii) Tx = Fx(ex - 0.10 Dnx)
where Fx is the lateral force at each level determined according to Sentence (7) and where each element of the building is designed for the most severe effect of the above load cases, or
b) for a building with B > 1.7, in cases where IEFaSa(0.2) is equal to or greater than 0.35, by a Dynamic Analysis Procedure as specified in Article 4.1.8.12.
12) Where the fundamental lateral period, Ta, is determined in accordance with Clause (3)(d) and the building is constructed with more than 4 storeys of continuous wood construction and has a timber SFRS consisting of shear walls with wood-based panels or of braced or moment-resisting frames as defined in Table 4.1.8.9., the lateral earthquake force, V, as determined in accordance with Sentence (2) shall be multiplied by 1.2 but need not exceed the value determined by using Clause (2)(c). (See Note A-4.1.8.10.(4).)
 4.1.8.12.
4.1.8.12.
Dynamic Analysis Procedure
1) Except as provided in Articles 4.1.8.19. and 4.1.8.21., the Dynamic Analysis Procedure shall be in accordance with one of the following methods:
a) Linear Dynamic Analysis by either the Modal Response Spectrum Method or the Numerical Integration Linear Time History Method using a structural model that complies with the requirements of Sentence 4.1.8.3.(8) (see
Note A-4.1.8.12.(1)(a)), or
b) Non-linear Dynamic Analysis, in which case a special study shall be performed (see Note A-4.1.8.12.(1)(b)).
2) The spectral acceleration values used in the Modal Response Spectrum Method shall be the design spectral acceleration values, S(T), defined in Sentence 4.1.8.4.(9).
3) The ground motion histories used in the Numerical Integration Linear Time History Method shall be compatible with a response spectrum constructed from the design spectral acceleration values, S(T), defined in Sentence 4.1.8.4.(9). (See Note A-4.1.8.12.(3).)
4) The effects of accidental torsional moments acting concurrently with the lateral earthquake forces that cause them shall be accounted for by the following methods:
a) the static effects of torsional moments due to (± 0.10 Dnx)Fx at each level x, where Fx is either determined from the elastic dynamic analysis
or determined from Sentence 4.1.8.11.(7) multiplied by RdRo/IE, shall be combined with the effects determined by dynamic analysis (see Note A-4.1.8.12.(4)(a)), or
b) if B, as defined in Sentence 4.1.8.11.(10), is less than 1.7, it is permitted to use a three-dimensional dynamic analysis with the centres of mass shifted by a distance of –0.05 Dnx and + 0.05 Dnx.
5) Except as provided in Sentence (6), the design elastic base shear, Ved, shall be equal to the elastic base shear, Ve, obtained from a Linear Dynamic Analysis.
6) For structures located on sites other than Class F that have an SFRS with Rd equal to or greater than 1.5, the elastic base shear obtained from a Linear Dynamic Analysis may be multiplied by the larger of the following factors to obtain the design elastic base shear, Ved:
7) The design elastic base shear, Ved, shall be multiplied by the importance factor, IE, as determined in Article 4.1.8.5., and shall be divided by RdRo, as determined in Article 4.1.8.9., to obtain the design base shear, Vd.
8) Except as required by Sentence (9) or (12), if the base shear, Vd, obtained in Sentence (7) is less than 80% of the lateral earthquake design force, V, of Article 4.1.8.11., Vd shall be taken as 0.8 V.
9) For irregular structures requiring dynamic analysis in accordance with Article 4.1.8.7., Vd shall be taken as the larger of the Vd determined in Sentence (7) and 100% of V.
10) Except as required by Sentence (11), the values of elastic storey shears, storey forces, member forces, and deflections obtained from the Linear Dynamic Analysis, including the effect of accidental torsion determined in Sentence (4), shall be multiplied by Vd/Ve to determine their design values, where Vd is the base shear.
11) For the purpose of calculating deflections, it is permitted to use a value for V based on the value for Ta determined in Clause 4.1.8.11.(3)(d) to obtain Vd in Sentences (8) and (9).
12) For buildings constructed with more than 4 storeys of continuous wood construction, having a timber SFRS consisting of shear walls with wood-based panels or braced or moment-resisting frames as defined in Table 4.1.8.9., and whose
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 4-61
  © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022
 4.1.8.13.
Division B
4.1.8.13.
fundamental lateral period, Ta, is determined in accordance with Clause 4.1.8.11.(3)(d), the design base shear, Vd, shall be taken as the larger value of Vd determined in accordance with Sentence (7) and 100% of V. (See Note A-4.1.8.10.(4).)
Deflections and Drift Limits
1) Except as provided in Sentences (5) and (6), lateral deflections of a structure shall be calculated in accordance with the loads and requirements defined in this Subsection.
2) Lateral deflections obtained from a linear elastic analysis using the methods given in Articles 4.1.8.11. and 4.1.8.12. and incorporating the effects of torsion, including accidental torsional moments, shall be multiplied by RdRo/IE and increased as required in Sentences 4.1.8.10.(6) and 4.1.8.16.(1) to give realistic values of anticipated deflections.
3) Based on the lateral deflections calculated in Sentences (2), (5) and (6), the largest interstorey deflection at any level shall be limited to 0.01 hs for post-disaster buildings, 0.02 hs for High Importance Category buildings, and 0.025 hs for all other buildings.
4) The deflections calculated in Sentence (2) shall be used to account for sway effects as required by Sentence 4.1.3.2.(12). (See Note A-4.1.8.13.(4).)
5) The lateral deflections of a seismically isolated structure shall be calculated in accordance with Article 4.1.8.20.
6) The lateral deflections of a structure with supplemental energy dissipation shall be calculated in accordance with Article 4.1.8.22.
Structural Separation
1) Adjacent structures shall be
a) separated by a distance equal to at least the square root of the sum of the
squares of their individual deflections calculated in Sentence 4.1.8.13.(2), or
b) connected to each other.
2) The method of connection required in Sentence (1) shall take into account the mass, stiffness, strength, ductility and anticipated motion of the connected buildings and the character of the connection.
3) Rigidly connected buildings shall be assumed to have the lowest RdRo value of the buildings connected.
4) Buildings with non-rigid or energy-dissipating connections require special studies.
Design Provisions
1) Except as provided in Sentences (2) and (3), diaphragms, collectors, chords, struts and connections shall be designed so as not to yield, and the design shall account for the shape of the diaphragm, including openings, and for the forces generated in the diaphragm due to the following cases, whichever one governs (see Note A-4.1.8.15.(1)):
a) forces due to loads determined in Article 4.1.8.11. or 4.1.8.12. applied to the diaphragm are increased to reflect the lateral load capacity of the SFRS, plus forces in the diaphragm due to the transfer of forces between elements of the SFRS associated with the lateral load capacity of such elements and accounting for discontinuities and changes in stiffness in these elements, or
b) a minimum force corresponding to the design-based shear divided by N for the diaphragm at level x.
2) Steel deck roof diaphragms in buildings of less than 4 storeys or wood diaphragms that are designed and detailed according to the applicable referenced design standards to exhibit ductile behaviour shall meet the requirements of Sentence (1), except that they may yield and the forces shall be
a) for wood diaphragms acting in combination with vertical wood shear walls, equal to the lateral earthquake design force,
4.1.8.14.
4.1.8.15.
4-62 Division B
Amended Page National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
4.1.8.16.
4.1.8.16.
b) c)
for wood diaphragms acting in combination with other SFRS, not less than the force corresponding to RdRo = 2.0, and
for steel deck roof diaphragms, not less than the force corresponding to RdRo = 2.0.
Where diaphragms are designed in accordance with Sentence (2), the struts shall be designed in accordance with Clause 4.1.8.15.(1)(a) and the collectors, chords and connections between the diaphragms and the vertical elements of the SFRS shall be designed for forces corresponding to the capacity of the diaphragms in accordance with the applicable CSA standards. (See Note A-4.1.8.15.(3).)
4) For single-storey buildings with steel deck or wood roof diaphragms designed with a value of Rd greater than 1.5 and where the calculated maximum relative deflection, ΔD, of the diaphragm under lateral loads exceeds 50% of the average storey drift, ΔB, of the adjoining vertical elements of the SFRS, dynamic magnification of the inelastic response due to the in-plane diaphragm deformations shall be accounted for in the design as follows:
a) the vertical elements of the SFRS shall be designed and detailed to any one of the following:
i) to accommodate the anticipated magnified lateral deformations taken as RoRd (ΔB +ΔD) - RoΔD,
ii) to resist the forces magnified by Rd(1 + ΔD/ΔB)/(Rd + ΔD/ΔB), or
iii) by a special study, and
b) the roof diaphragm and chords shall be designed for in-plane shears and
moments determined while taking into consideration the inelastic higher
mode response of the structure.
(See Note A-4.1.8.15.(4).)
5) In cases where IEFaSa(0.2) is equal to or greater than 0.35, the elements supporting any discontinuous wall, column or braced frame shall be designed for the lateral load capacity of the components of the SFRS they support. (See Note A-4.1.8.15.(5).)
6) Where structures have vertical variations of RdRo satisfying Sentence 4.1.8.9.(4), the elements of the SFRS below the level where the change in RdRo occurs shall be designed for the forces associated with the lateral load capacity of the SFRS above that level. (See Note A-4.1.8.15.(6).)
7) Where earthquake effects can produce forces in a column or wall due to lateral loading along both orthogonal axes, account shall be taken of the effects of potential concurrent yielding of other elements framing into the column or wall from all directions at the level under consideration and as appropriate at other levels. (See Note A-4.1.8.15.(7).)
8) The design forces associated with the lateral capacity of the SFRS need not exceed the forces determined in accordance with Sentence 4.1.8.7.(1) with RdRo taken as 1.0, unless otherwise provided by the applicable referenced design standards for elements, in which case the design forces associated with the lateral capacity of the SFRS need not exceed the forces determined in accordance with Sentence 4.1.8.7.(1) with RdRo taken as less than or equal to 1.3. (See Note A-4.1.8.15.(8).)
9) Foundations need not be designed to resist the lateral load overturning capacity of the SFRS, provided the design and the Rd and Ro for the type of SFRS used conform to Table 4.1.8.9. and that the foundation is designed in accordance with Sentence 4.1.8.16.(4).
10) Foundation displacements and rotations shall be considered as required by Sentence 4.1.8.16.(1).
Foundation Provisions
1) The increased displacements of the structure resulting from foundation movement shall be shown to be within acceptable limits for both the SFRS and the structural framing elements not considered to be part of the SFRS. (See Note A-4.1.8.16.(1).)
3)
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division B 4-63
   © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 4.1.8.17.
Division B
4.1.8.17.
2) Except as provided in Sentences (3) and (4), foundations shall be designed to have factored shear and overturning resistances greater than the lateral load capacity of the SFRS. (See Note A-4.1.8.16.(2).)
3) The shear and overturning resistances of the foundation determined using a bearing stress equal to 1.5 times the factored bearing strength of the soil or rock and all other resistances equal to 1.3 times the factored resistances need not exceed the design forces determined in Sentence 4.1.8.7.(1) using RdRo = 1.0, except that the factor of
1.3 shall not apply to the portion of the resistance to uplift or overturning resulting from gravity loads.
4) A foundation is permitted to have a factored overturning resistance less than the lateral load overturning capacity of the supported SFRS, provided the following requirements are met:
a) neither the foundation nor the supported SFRS are constrained against rotation, and
b) the design overturning moment of the foundation is
i) not less than 75% of the overturning capacity of the
supported SFRS, and
ii) not less than that determined in Sentence 4.1.8.7.(1) using
RdRo = 2.0.
(See Note A-4.1.8.16.(4).)
5) The design of foundations shall be such that they are capable of transferring earthquake loads and effects between the building and the ground without exceeding the capacities of the soil and rock.
6) In cases where IEFaSa(0.2) is equal to or greater than 0.35, the following requirements shall be satisfied:
a) piles or pile caps, drilled piers, and caissons shall be interconnected by continuous ties in not less than two directions (see Note A-4.1.8.16.(6)(a)),
b) piles, drilled piers, and caissons shall be embedded a minimum of 100 mm
into the pile cap or structure, and
c) piles, drilled piers, and caissons, other than wood piles, shall be connected to
the pile cap or structure for a minimum tension force equal to 0.15 times the factored compression load on the pile.
7) At sites where IEFaSa(0.2) is equal to or greater than 0.35, basement walls shall be designed to resist earthquake lateral pressures from backfill or natural ground. (See Note A-4.1.8.16.(7).)
8) At sites where IEFaSa(0.2) is greater than 0.75, the following requirements shall be satisfied:
a) piles, drilled piers, or caissons shall be designed and detailed to accommodate cyclic inelastic behaviour when the design moment in the element due
to earthquake effects is greater than 75% of its moment capacity (see
Note A-4.1.8.16.(8)(a)), and
b) spread footings founded on soil defined as Site Class E or F shall be interconnected by continuous ties in not less than two directions.
9) Each segment of a tie between elements that is required by Clauses (6)(a)
or (8)(b) shall be designed to carry by tension or compression a horizontal force at least equal to the greatest factored pile cap or column vertical load in the elements it connects, multiplied by a factor of 0.10 IEFaSa(0.2), unless it can be demonstrated that equivalent restraints can be provided by other means. (See Note A-4.1.8.16.(9).)
10) The potential for liquefaction of the soil and its consequences, such as significant ground displacement and loss of soil strength and stiffness, shall be evaluated based on the ground motion parameters referenced in Subsection 1.1.3., as modified by Article 4.1.8.4., and shall be taken into account in the design of the structure and its foundations. (See Note A-4.1.8.16.(10).)
Site Stability
1) The potential for slope instability and its consequences, such as slope
displacement, shall be evaluated based on site-specific material properties and ground
4-64 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 4.1.8.18.
4.1.8.18.
motion parameters referenced in Subsection 1.1.3., as modified by Article 4.1.8.4., and shall be taken into account in the design of the structure and its foundations. (See Note A-4.1.8.17.(1).)
Elements of Structures, Non-structural Components and Equipment
(See Note A-4.1.8.18.)
1) Except as provided in Sentences (2), (7) and (16), elements and components
of buildings described in Table 4.1.8.18. and their connections to the structure shall
be designed to accommodate the building deflections calculated in accordance with Article 4.1.8.13. and the element or component deflections calculated in accordance with Sentence (9), and shall be designed for a lateral force, Vp, distributed according to the distribution of mass:
where
Fa = as defined in Sentence 4.1.8.4.(7),
Sa(0.2) =spectralresponseaccelerationvalueat0.2s,asdefinedinSentence4.1.8.4.(1), IE = importance factor for the building, as defined in Article 4.1.8.5.,
Sp = CpArAx/Rp (the maximum value of Sp shall be taken as 4.0 and the minimum value of Sp shall be taken as 0.7), where
Cp = element or component factor from Table 4.1.8.18.,
Ar = element or component force amplification factor from Table 4.1.8.18.,
Ax =heightfactor(1+2hx /hn),
Rp = element or component response modification factor from Table 4.1.8.18.,
Category
and
Wp = weight of the component or element.
Table 4.1.8.18.
Elements of Structures and Non-structural Components and Equipment(1) Forming Part of Sentences 4.1.8.18.(1), (2), (3), (6) and (7)
Part or Portion of Building
Cp Ar Rp
1.00 1.00 2.50 1.00 2.50 2.50 1.00 2.50 2.50 - - - 1.00 2.50 2.50 1.00 1.00 2.50 1.00 1.00 2.50 1.00 1.00 1.50 1.00 1.00 2.50 1.00 1.00 2.50
1.00 1.00 1.25 1.00 2.50 2.50
1.50 1.00 1.25 1.50 2.50 2.50 0.70 1.00 2.50 1.00 1.00 2.50
1.00 1.00 3.00
1 All exterior and interior walls except those in Category 2 or 3
2 Cantilever parapet and other cantilever walls except retaining walls
3 Exterior and interior ornamentations and appendages
4 Floors and roofs acting as diaphragms(2)
5 Towers, chimneys, smokestacks and penthouses when connected to or forming part of a building
6 Horizontally cantilevered floors, balconies, beams, etc.
7 Suspended ceilings, light fixtures and other attachments to ceilings with independent vertical support
8 Masonry veneer connections
9 Access floors
10 Masonry or concrete fences more than 1.8 m tall
11 Machinery, fixtures, equipment and tanks (including contents)
that are rigid and rigidly connected
that are flexible or flexibly connected
12 Machinery, fixtures, equipment and tanks (including contents) containing toxic or explosive materials,
materials having a flash point below 38°C or firefighting fluids that are rigid and rigidly connected
that are flexible or flexibly connected
13 Flat bottom tanks (including contents) attached directly to a floor at or below grade within a building
14 Flat bottom tanks (including contents) attached directly to a floor at or below grade within a building
containing toxic or explosive materials, materials having a flash point below 38°C or firefighting fluids
15 Pipes, ducts (including contents)
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division B 4-65
   © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 4.1.8.18.
Division B
Category
Table 4.1.8.18. (Continued)
Part or Portion of Building
Cp Ar Rp
1.50 1.00 3.00 1.00 2.50 5.00 1.00 1.00 2.50 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 2.50 2.50 1.00 2.50 1.00
as per category 11 1.00 1.00 2.50 1.00 2.50 2.50 1.50 2.50 2.50
16 Pipes, ducts (including contents) containing toxic or explosive materials
17 Electrical cable trays, bus ducts, conduits
18 Rigid components with ductile material and connections
19 Rigid components with non-ductile material or connections
20 Flexible components with ductile material and connections
21 Flexible components with non-ductile material or connections
22 Elevators and escalators(3)
machinery and equipment
elevator rails
23 Floor-mounted steel pallet storage racks(4)
24 Floor-mounted steel pallet storage racks on which are stored toxic or explosive materials or materials having a flash point below 38°C(4).
Notes to Table 4.1.8.18.:
(1) See Note A-Table 4.1.8.18.
(2) See Sentence (8).
(3) See also ASME A17.1/CSA B44, “Safety Code for Elevators and Escalators.”
(4) See Sentence (13) and Note A-Table 4.1.8.18.
4-66 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
2) For buildings other than post-disaster buildings, seismically isolated buildings, and buildings with supplemental energy dissipation systems, where IEFaSa(0.2) is less than 0.35, the requirements of Sentence (1) need not apply to Categories 6 through 22 of Table 4.1.8.18.
3) For the purpose of applying Sentence (1) for Categories 11 and 12 of
Table 4.1.8.18., elements or components shall be assumed to be flexible or flexibly connected unless it can be shown that the fundamental period of the element or component and its connection is less than or equal to 0.06 s, in which case the element or component is classified as being rigid or rigidly connected.
4) The weight of access floors shall include the dead load of the access floor and the weight of permanent equipment, which shall not be taken as less than 25% of the floor live load.
5) When the mass of a tank plus its contents or the mass of a flexible or flexibly connected piece of machinery, fixture or equipment is greater than 10% of the mass of the supporting floor, the lateral forces shall be determined by rational analysis.
6) Forces shall be applied in the horizontal direction that results in the most critical loading for design, except for Category 6 of Table 4.1.8.18., where the forces shall be applied up and down vertically.
7) Connections to the structure of elements and components listed in
Table 4.1.8.18. shall be designed to support the component or element for gravity loads, shall conform to the requirements of Sentence (1), and shall also satisfy these additional requirements:
a) friction due to gravity loads shall not be considered to provide resistance to seismic forces,
b) Rp for non-ductile connections, such as adhesives or power-actuated fasteners, shall be taken as 1.0,
c) Rp for anchorage using shallow expansion, chemical, epoxy or cast-in-place anchors shall be 1.5, where shallow anchors are those with a ratio of embedment length to diameter of less than 8,
d) power-actuated fasteners and drop-in anchors shall not be used for tension loads,
   © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
4.1.8.18.
e)
connections for non-structural elements or components of Category 1, 2 or 3 of Table 4.1.8.18. attached to the side of a building and above the first level above grade shall satisfy the following requirements:
i) forconnectionswherethebodyoftheconnectionisductile, the body shall be designed for values of Cp, Ar and Rp given in Table 4.1.8.18., and all of the other parts of the connection, such as anchors, welds, bolts and inserts, shall be capable of developing 2.0 times the nominal yield resistance of the body of the connection, and
ii) connectionswherethebodyoftheconnectionisnotductile shall be designed for values of Cp = 2.0, Rp = 1.0 and Ar given in Table 4.1.8.18., and
a ductile connection is one where the body of the connection is capable of dissipating energy through cyclic inelastic behaviour.
f)
Floors and roofs acting as diaphragms shall satisfy the requirements for diaphragms stated in Article 4.1.8.15.
9) Lateral deflections of elements or components shall be based on the loads defined in Sentence (1) and lateral deflections obtained from an elastic analysis shall be multiplied by Rp/IE to give realistic values of the anticipated deflections.
10) The elements or components shall be designed so as not to transfer to the structure any forces unaccounted for in the design, and rigid elements such as walls or panels shall satisfy the requirements of Sentence 4.1.8.3.(6).
11) Seismic restraint for suspended equipment, pipes, ducts, electrical cable trays, etc. shall be designed to meet the force and displacement requirements of this Article and be constructed in a manner that will not subject hanger rods to bending.
12) Isolated suspended equipment and components, such as pendent lights, may be designed as a pendulum system provided that adequate chains or cables capable of supporting 2.0 times the weight of the suspended component are provided and the deflection requirements of Sentence (10) are satisfied.
13) Free-standing steel pallet storage racks are permitted to be designed to resist earthquake effects using rational analysis, provided the design achieves the minimum performance level required by Subsection 4.1.8. (See Note A-4.1.8.18.(13).)
14) Except as provided in Sentence (15), the relative displacement of glass in glazing systems, Dfallout, shall be equal to the greater of
8)
a)
b)
(See Note A-4.1.8.18.(14) and (15).)
15) Glass need not comply with Sentence (14), provided at least one of the following conditions is met:
a) IEFaSa(0.2) < 0.35,
b) the glass has sufficient clearance from its frame such that Dclear ≥ 1.25 Dp
calculated as follows:
where
Dclear = relative horizontal displacement measured over the height of the
glass panel, which causes initial glass-to-frame contact,
C1 = average of the clearances on both sides between the vertical glass
edges and the frame,
hp = height of the rectangular glass panel,
Dfallout ........... Dp .................
, where
= relative displacement at which glass fallout occurs, and
= relative earthquake displacement that the component must be designed to accommodate, calculated in accordance with Article 4.1.8.13. and applied over the height of the glass component, or
13 mm.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Amended Page Division B 4-67
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 4.1.8.19.
Division B
4.1.8.19.
(See Note A-4.1.8.18.(14) and (15).)
16) For structures with supplemental energy dissipation, the following criteria shall apply:
a) the value of Sa(0.2) used in Sentence (1) shall be determined from the mean 5% damped floor spectral acceleration values at 0.2 s by averaging the individual 5% damped floor spectra at the base of the structure determined using Non-Linear Dynamic Analysis, and
b) the value of Fa used in Sentence (1) shall be 1.
Seismic Isolation
1) For the purposes of this Article and Article 4.1.8.20., the following terms shall have the meanings stated herein:
a) “seismic isolation” is an alternative seismic design concept that consists of installing an isolation system with low horizontal stiffness, thereby substantially increasing the fundamental period of the structure;
b) “isolation system” is a collection of structural elements at the level of the isolation interface that includes all individual isolator units, all structural elements that transfer force between elements of the isolation system,
all connections to other structural elements, and may also include a wind-restraint system, energy-dissipation devices, and a displacement restraint system;
c) “seismically isolated structure” includes the upper portion of the structure above the isolation system, the isolation system, and the portion of the structure below the isolation system;
d) “isolator unit” is a structural element of the isolation system that permits large lateral deformations under lateral earthquake design forces and is characterized by vertical-load-carrying capability combined with increased horizontal flexibility and high vertical stiffness, energy dissipation (hysteretic or viscous), self-centering capability, and lateral restraint (sufficient elastic stiffness) under non-seismic service lateral loads;
e) “isolation interface” is the boundary between the isolated upper portion of the structure above the isolation system and the lower portion of the structure below the isolation system; and
f) “wind-restraint system” is the collection of structural elements of the isolation system that provides restraint of the seismically isolated structure for wind loads and is permitted to be either an integral part of the isolator units or a separate device.
2) Every seismically isolated structure and every portion thereof shall be analyzed and designed in accordance with
a) the loads and requirements prescribed in this Article and Article 4.1.8.20.,
b) other applicable requirements of this Subsection, and
c) appropriate engineering principles and current engineering practice.
(See Note A-4.1.8.19.(2).)
3) For the analysis and modeling of the seismically isolated structure, the following criteria shall apply:
a) a three-dimensional Non-linear Dynamic Analysis of the structure shall be performed in accordance with Article 4.1.8.12. (see Note A-4.1.8.19.(3)(a)),
4-68 Division B
Amended Page National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
c) d)
= width of the rectangular glass panel,
the glass is fully tempered, monolithic, installed in a non-post-disaster building, and no part of the glass is located more than 3 m above a walking surface, or
the glass is annealed or heat-strengthened laminated glass in a single thickness with an interlayer no less than 0.76 mm and captured mechanically in a wall system glazing pocket with the perimeter secured to the frame by a wet, glazed, gunable, curing, elastomeric sealant perimeter bead of 13 mm minimum glass contact width.
C2
bp
= averages of the top and bottom clearances between the horizontal glass edges and the frame, and
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
4.1.8.20.
4.1.8.20.
(See Note A-4.1.8.19.(4) and 4.1.8.21.(5).)
Seismic Isolation Design Provisions
1) The period of the isolated structure, determined using the post-yield stiffness of the isolation system in the horizontal direction under consideration, shall be greater than three times the period of the structure above the isolation interface calculated as a fixed base.
2) The isolation system shall be configured to produce a restoring force such that the lateral force at the TDD at the centre of mass of the isolated structure above the isolation interface is at least 0.025Wb greater than the lateral force at 50% of the TDD at the same location, in each horizontal direction, where Wb is the portion of W above the isolation interface.
3) The values of storey shears, storey forces, member forces, and deflections used in the design of all structural framing elements and components of the isolation system shall be obtained from analysis conforming to Sentence 4.1.8.19.(3) using one of the following values, whichever produces the most critical effect:
a) mean plus IE times the standard deviation of results of all Non-linear Dynamic Analyses, or
b) √IE times the mean of the results of all Non-linear Dynamic Analyses.
4) The force-deformation and damping characteristics of the isolation system used in the analysis and design of seismically isolated structures shall be validated by
b)
c)
d)
4)
a) b)
c)
unless verified from rational analysis, the inherent equivalent viscous damping—excluding the hysteretic damping provided by the isolation system or supplemental energy dissipation devices—used in the analysis shall not be taken as more than 2.5% of the critical damping at the significant modes of vibration,
all individual isolator units shall be modeled with sufficient detail to account for their non-linear force-deformation characteristics, including effects of the relevant loads, and with consideration of variations in material properties over the design life of the structure, and
except for elements of the isolation system, other components of the seismically isolated structure shall be modeled using elastic material properties in accordance with Sentence 4.1.8.3.(8).
The ground motion histories used in Sentence (3) shall be appropriately selected and scaled following good engineering practice, compatible with
i) a response spectrum derived from the design spectral acceleration values, S(T), defined in Sentence 4.1.8.4.(9) for ground conditions of Site Classes A, B and C, and
ii) a 5% damped response spectrum based on a site-specific evaluation for ground conditions of Site Classes D, E and F, and
amplitude-scaled in an appropriate manner over the period range of 0.2 T1 to 1.5 T1, where T1 is the period of the isolated structure determined using the post-yield stiffness of the isolation system in the horizontal direction under consideration, or the period specified in Sentence 4.1.8.20.(1) if the post-yield stiffness of the isolation system is not well defined.
testing unit of
a) b) c)
at least two full-size specimens of each predominant type and size of isolator the isolation system, which shall include
the individual isolator units,
separate supplemental damping devices, if used, and
separate sacrificial wind-restraint systems, if used.
The force-deformation characteristics and damping value of a representative sample of the isolator units installed in the building shall be validated by tests prior to their installation.
6) A diaphragm or horizontal structural elements shall provide continuity immediately above the isolation interface to transmit forces due to non-uniform ground motions from one part of the structure to another.
5)
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 4-69
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 4.1.8.21.
Division B
4.1.8.21.
7) All structural framing elements shall be designed for the forces described in Sentence (3) with RdRo= 1.0, except
a) for structures with IE < 1.5, all SFRS shall be detailed in accordance with the requirements for Rd ≥ 1.5 and the applicable referenced design standards, and
b) for structures with IE = 1.5, all SFRS shall be detailed in accordance with the requirements for Rd ≥ 2.0 and the applicable referenced design standards.
8) The height restrictions noted in Table 4.1.8.9. need not apply to seismically isolated structures.
9) All isolator units shall be
a) designed for the forces described in Sentence (3), and
b) able to accommodate the TDD determined at the specific location of each
isolator unit.
10) The isolation system, including a separate wind-restraint system if used, shall limit lateral displacement due to wind loads across the isolation interface to a value equal to that required for the least storey height in accordance with Sentence 4.1.3.5.(3).
Supplemental Energy Dissipation
1) For the purposes of this Article and Article 4.1.8.22., the following terms shall have the meanings stated herein:
a) “supplemental energy dissipation device” is a dedicated structural element of the supplemental energy dissipation system that dissipates energy due to relative motion of each of its ends or by alternative means, and includes all pins, bolts, gusset plates, brace extensions and other components required to connect it to the other elements of the structure; a device may be classified as either displacement-dependent or velocity-dependent, or
a combination thereof, and may be configured to act in either a linear or
non-linear manner, and
b) “supplemental energy dissipation system” is a collection of energy
dissipation devices installed in a structure that supplement the energy dissipation of the SFRS.
2) Every structure with a supplemental energy dissipation system and every portion thereof shall be designed and constructed in accordance with
a) the loads and requirements prescribed in this Article and Article 4.1.8.22.,
b) other applicable requirements of this Subsection, and
c) appropriate engineering principles and current engineering practice.
(See Note A-4.1.8.21.(2).)
3) Where supplemental energy dissipation devices are used across the isolation interface of a seismically isolated structure, displacements, velocities, and accelerations shall be determined in accordance with Article 4.1.8.20.
4) For the analysis and modeling of structures with supplemental energy dissipation devices, the following criteria shall apply:
a) a three-dimensional Non-linear Dynamic Analysis of the structure shall be performed in accordance with Article 4.1.8.12. (see Note A-4.1.8.21.(4)(a)),
b) for SFRS with Rd > 1.0, the non-linear hysteretic behaviour of the SFRS shall be explicitly—with sufficient detail—accounted for in the modeling and analysis of the structure,
c) unless verified from rational analysis, the inherent equivalent viscous damping—excluding the damping provided by the supplemental energy dissipation devices—used in the analysis shall not be taken as more than 2.5% of the critical damping at the significant modes of vibration,
d) all supplemental energy dissipation devices shall be modeled with sufficient detail to account for their non-linear force deformation characteristics, including effects of the relevant loads, and with consideration of variations in their properties over the design life of the structure, and
e) except for the SFRS and elements of the supplemental energy dissipation system, other components of the structure shall be modeled using elastic material properties in accordance with Sentence 4.1.8.3.(8).
4-70 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
4.1.8.22.
4.1.8.22.
Supplemental Energy Dissipation Design Considerations
1) The values of storey shears, storey forces, member forces, and deflections for the design of all structural framing elements and all supplemental energy dissipation devices shall be obtained from analysis conforming to Sentence 4.1.8.21.(4) using one of the following values, whichever produces the most critical effect:
a) mean plus IE times the standard deviation of the results of all Non-linear Dynamic Analyses, or
b) √IE times the mean of the results of all Non-linear Dynamic Analyses.
2) The largest interstorey deflection at any level of the structure as determined in accordance with Sentence (1) shall conform to the limits stated in Sentence 4.1.8.13.(3).
3) The force-deformation and force-velocity characteristics of the supplemental energy dissipation devices used in the analysis and design of structures with supplemental energy dissipation systems shall be validated by testing at least two full-size specimens of each type of supplementary energy dissipation device.
4) The force-deformation and force-velocity characteristics and damping values of a representative sample of the supplemental energy dissipation devices installed in the building shall be validated by tests prior to their installation.
5) Elements of the supplemental energy dissipation system, except the supplemental energy dissipation devices themselves, shall be designed to remain elastic for the design loads.
6) All structural framing elements shall be designed
a) for an SFRS with Rd =1.0, using the forces referred to in Sentence (1) with
RdRo = 1.0, except that the SFRS shall be detailed in accordance with the
requirements for Rd ≥ 1.5 and the applicable referenced design standards, or
b) for an SFRS with Rd > 1.0, using the forces referred to in Sentence (1) with
RdRo = 1.0, except that the SFRS shall be detailed in accordance with the requirements for the selected Rd and the applicable referenced design standards.
7) Supplemental energy dissipation devices and other components of the supplemental energy dissipation system shall be designed in accordance with Sentence (1) with consideration of the following:
a) low-cycle, large-displacement degradation due to seismic loads,
b) high-cycle, small-displacement degradation due to wind, thermal, or other
cyclic loads,
c) forces or displacements due to gravity loads,
d) adhesion of device parts due to corrosion or abrasion, biodegradation, moisture, or chemical exposure,
e) exposure to environmental conditions, including, but not limited to, temperature, humidity, moisture, radiation (e.g., ultraviolet light), and reactive or corrosive substances (e.g., salt water),
f) devices subject to failure due to low-cycle fatigue must resist wind forces without slip, movement, or inelastic cycling,
g) the range of thermal conditions, device wear, manufacturing tolerances, and other effects that cause device properties to vary during the design life of the device, and
h) connection points of devices must provide sufficient articulation to accommodate simultaneous longitudinal, lateral, and vertical displacements of the supplemental energy dissipation system.
5)
a) b)
The ground motion histories used in Sentence (4) shall be
appropriately selected and scaled following good engineering practice, compatible with a 5% damped response spectrum derived from the design spectral acceleration values, S(T), defined in Sentence 4.1.8.4.(9), and amplitude-scaled in an appropriate manner over the period range of 0.2 T1 to 1.5 T1, where T1 is the fundamental lateral period of the structure with the supplemental energy dissipation system.
c)
(See Note A-4.1.8.19.(4) and 4.1.8.21.(5).)
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 4-71
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 4.2.1.1. Division B
8) Means of access for inspection and removal for replacement of all supplemental energy dissipation devices shall be provided.
Section 4.2. Foundations
4.2.1. 4.2.1.1.
4.2.2. 4.2.2.1.
4.2.2.2.
4.2.2.3.
General Application
1) This Section applies to excavations and foundation systems for buildings. Subsurface Investigations, Drawings and Reviews
Subsurface Investigation
1) A subsurface investigation, including groundwater conditions, shall be carried out by or under the direction of a professional engineer having knowledge and experience in planning and executing such investigations to a degree appropriate for the building and its use, the ground and the surrounding site conditions. (See Note A-4.2.2.1.(1).)
Drawings
1) Drawings associated with foundations and excavations shall conform to the appropriate requirements of Section 2.2. of Division C. (See Article 2.2.4.6. of Division C.)
Field Review
1) A field review shall be carried out by the designer or by another suitably qualified person to ascertain that the subsurface conditions are consistent with the design and that construction is carried out in accordance with the design and good engineering practice. (See Note A-4.2.2.3.(1).)
2) The review required by Sentence (1) shall be carried out
a) on a continuous basis
i) duringtheconstructionofalldeepfoundationunitswithall pertinent information recorded for each foundation unit,
ii) duringtheinstallationandremovalofretainingstructures
and related backfilling operations, and
iii) duringtheplacementofengineeredfillsthataretobeused
to support the foundation units, and
b) as required, unless otherwise directed by the authority having jurisdiction,
i) intheconstructionofallshallowfoundationunits,and ii) inexcavating,dewateringandotherrelatedworks.
Altered Subsurface Condition
1) If, during construction, the soil, rock or groundwater is found not to be of the type or in the condition used in design and as indicated on the drawings, the design shall be reassessed by the designer.
2) If, during construction, climatic or any other conditions change the properties of the soil, rock or groundwater, the design shall be reassessed by the designer.
Materials Used in Foundations Wood
1) Wood used in foundations or in support of soil or rock shall conform with the appropriate requirements of Subsection 4.3.1.
4.2.2.4.
4.2.3. 4.2.3.1.
4-72 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 4.2.3.9.
4.2.3.2.
Preservation Treatment of Wood
1) Wood exposed to soil or air above the lowest anticipated groundwater table shall be treated with preservative in conformance with CAN/CSA-O80 Series, “Wood Preservation,” and the requirements of the appropriate commodity standard as follows:
a) CAN/CSA-O80.2, “Processing and Treatment,”
b) CAN/CSA-O80.3, “Preservative Formulations,” or
c) CSA O80.15, “Preservative Treatment of Wood for Building Foundation Systems, Basements, and Crawl Spaces by Pressure Processes.”
2) Where timber has been treated as required in Sentence (1), it shall be cared for as provided in AWPA M4, “Care of Preservative-Treated Wood Products,” as revised by Clause 6 of CAN/CSA-O80 Series, “Wood Preservation.”
Plain and Reinforced Masonry
1) Plain or reinforced masonry used in foundations or in support of soil or rock shall
conform with the requirements of Subsection 4.3.2.
Prevention of Deterioration of Masonry
1) Where plain or reinforced masonry in foundations or in structures supporting soil or rock may be subject to conditions conducive to deterioration, protection shall be provided to prevent such deterioration.
Concrete
1) Plain, reinforced or pre-stressed concrete used in foundations or in support of
soil or rock shall conform with the requirements of Subsection 4.3.3. Protection Against Chemical Attack
1) Where concrete in foundations may be subject to chemical attack, it shall be treated in conformance with the requirements in CSA A23.1, “Concrete Materials and Methods of Concrete Construction.”
Steel
1) Steel used in foundations or in support of soil or rock shall conform with the appropriate requirements of Subsection 4.3.3. or 4.3.4., unless otherwise specified in this Section.
Steel Piles
1) Where steel piles are used in deep foundations and act as permanent load-carrying members, the steel shall conform with one of the following standards:
a) ASTM A 252, “Welded and Seamless Steel Pipe Piles,”
b) ASTM A 283/A 283M, “Low and Intermediate Tensile Strength Carbon Steel
Plates,”
c) ASTM A 1008/A 1008M, “Steel, Sheet, Cold-Rolled, Carbon, Structural,
High-Strength Low-Alloy, High-Strength Low-Alloy with Improved
Formability, Solution Hardened, and Bake Hardenable,”
d) ASTM A 1011/A 1011M, “Steel, Sheet and Strip, Hot-Rolled, Carbon, Structural, High-Strength Low-Alloy, High-Strength Low-Alloy with
Improved Formability, and Ultra-High Strength,” or e) CSA G40.21, “Structural Quality Steel.”
High Strength Steel Tendons
1) Where high strength steel is used for tendons in anchor systems used for the permanent support of a foundation or in the erection of temporary support of soil or rock adjacent to an excavation, it shall conform with the requirements of CSA A23.1, “Concrete Materials and Methods of Concrete Construction.”
4.2.3.3.
4.2.3.4.
4.2.3.5.
4.2.3.6.
4.2.3.7.
4.2.3.8.
4.2.3.9.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 4-73
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 4.2.3.10.
Division B
4.2.3.10.
4.2.4. 4.2.4.1.
Corrosion of Steel
1) Where conditions are corrosive to steel, adequate protection of exposed steel
shall be provided. (See Article 1.2.1.1. of Division A for use of other materials.)
Design Requirements Design Basis
1) The design of foundations, excavations and soil- and rock-retaining structures shall be based on a subsurface investigation carried out in conformance with the requirements of this Section, and on any of the following, as appropriate:
a) application of generally accepted geotechnical and civil engineering principles by a professional engineer especially qualified in this field of work, as provided in this Section and other Sections of Part 4,
b) established local practice, where such practice includes successful experience both with soils and rocks of similar type and condition and with a foundation or excavation of similar type, construction method, size and depth, or
c) in situ testing of foundation units, such as the load testing of piles, anchors or footings, carried out by a person competent in this field of work.
(See Note A-4.2.4.1.(1).)
2) The foundations of a building shall be capable of resisting all the loads stipulated in Section 4.1., in accordance with limit states design in Subsection 4.1.3.
3) For the purpose of the application of the load combinations given in
Table 4.1.3.2.-A, the geotechnical components of loads and the factored geotechnical resistances at ULS shall be determined by a suitably qualified and experienced professional engineer. (See Note A-4.2.4.1.(3).)
4) Geotechnical components of service loads and geotechnical reactions for SLS shall be determined by a suitably qualified and experienced professional engineer.
5) The foundation of a building shall be designed to satisfy SLS requirements within the limits that the building is designed to accommodate, including total settlement and differential settlement, heave, lateral movement, tilt or rotation. (See Note A-4.2.4.1.(5).)
6) Communication, interaction and coordination between the designer and the professional engineer responsible for the geotechnical aspects of the project shall take place to a degree commensurate with the complexity and requirements of the project.
Subsurface Investigation
1) A subsurface investigation shall be carried out to the depth and extent to which the building or excavation will significantly change the stress in the soil or rock, or to such a depth and extent as to provide all the necessary information for the design and construction of the excavation or the foundations.
Identification
1) The identification and classification of soil, rock and groundwater and descriptions of their engineering and physical properties shall be in accordance with a widely accepted system.
Depth of Foundations
1) Except as permitted in Sentence (2), the bearing surface of a foundation shall be below the level of potential damage, including damage resulting from frost action, and the foundation shall be designed to prevent damage resulting from adfreezing and frost jacking. (See Note A-4.2.4.4.(1).)
2) The bearing surface of a foundation need not be below the level of potential damage from frost where the foundation
4.2.4.2.
4.2.4.3.
4.2.4.4.
4-74 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
a) b)
is designed against frost action, or
overlies material not susceptible to frost action.
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
4.2.5.1.
4.2.4.5.
4.2.4.6.
4.2.4.7.
4.2.4.8.
4.2.4.9.
4.2.4.10.
4.2.4.11.
4.2.4.12.
4.2.4.13.
4.2.4.14.
4.2.5. 4.2.5.1.
Sloping Ground
1) Where a foundation is to rest on, in or near sloping ground, this particular
condition shall be provided for in the design.
Eccentric and Inclined Loads
1) Where there is eccentricity or inclination of loading in foundation units, this
effect shall be fully investigated and provided for in the design.
Dynamic Loading
1) Where dynamic loading conditions apply, the effects shall be assessed by a
special investigation of these conditions and provided for in the design.
Hydrostatic Uplift
1) Where a foundation or any part of a building is subject to hydrostatic uplift, the
effects shall be provided for in the design.
Groundwater Level Change
1) Where proposed construction will result in a temporary or permanent change in the groundwater level, the effects of this change on adjacent buildings shall be fully investigated and provided for in the design.
Permafrost
1) Where conditions of permafrost are encountered or proven to exist, the design of the foundation shall be based upon analysis of these conditions by a person especially qualified in that field of work.
Swelling and Shrinking Soils
1) Where swelling or shrinking soils, in which movements resulting from moisture content changes may be sufficient to cause damage to a structure, are encountered or known to exist, such a condition shall be fully investigated and provided for in the design.
Expanding and Deteriorating Rock
1) Where rock that expands or deteriorates when subjected to unfavourable environmental conditions or to stress release is known to exist, this condition shall be fully investigated and provided for in the design.
Construction on Fill
1) Buildings may be placed on fill if it can be shown by subsurface investigation that
a) the fill is or can be made capable of safely supporting the building,
b) detrimental movement of the building or of services leading to the building
will not occur, and
c) explosive gases can be controlled or do not exist.
Structural Design
1) The structural design of the foundation of a building, the procedures and construction practices shall conform with the appropriate Sections of this Code unless otherwise specified in this Section.
Excavations
Design of Excavations
1) The design of excavations and of supports for the sides of excavations shall conform with Subsection 4.2.4. and with this Subsection. (See Note A-4.2.5.1.(1).)
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division B 4-75
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 4.2.5.2.
Division B
4.2.5.2.
4.2.5.3.
4.2.5.4.
4.2.5.5.
4.2.5.6.
4.2.5.7.
4.2.5.8.
4.2.6. 4.2.6.1.
4.2.6.2.
Excavation Construction
1) Every excavation shall be undertaken in such a manner as to
a) prevent movement that would cause damage to adjacent buildings at all
phases of construction, and
b) comply with the appropriate requirements of Part 8.
2) Material shall not be placed nor shall equipment be operated or placed in or adjacent to an excavation in a manner that may endanger the integrity of the excavation or its supports.
Supported Excavations
1) The sides of an excavation in soil or rock shall be supported by a retaining structure conforming with the requirements of Articles 4.2.5.1. and 4.2.5.2., except as permitted in Article 4.2.5.4.
Unsupported Excavations
1) The sides of an excavation in soil or rock may be unsupported where a design is
prepared in conformance with the requirements of Articles 4.2.5.1. and 4.2.5.2.
Control of Water around Excavations
1) Surface water, all groundwater, perched groundwater and in particular artesian
groundwater shall be kept under control at all phases of excavation and construction. Loss of Ground
1) At all phases of excavation and construction, loss of ground due to water or any other cause shall be prevented.
Protection and Maintenance at Excavations
1) All sides of an excavation, supported and unsupported, shall be continuously maintained and protected from possible deterioration by construction activity or by the action of frost, rain and wind.
Backfilling
1) Where an excavation is backfilled, the backfill shall be placed so as to
a) provide lateral support to the soil adjacent to the excavation, and
b) prevent detrimental movements.
2) The material used as backfill or fill supporting a footing, foundation or a floor on grade shall be of a type that is not subject to detrimental volume change with changes in moisture content and temperature. (See Note A-4.2.5.8.(2).)
Shallow Foundations Design of Shallow Foundations
1) The design of shallow foundations shall be in conformance with Subsection 4.2.4. and the requirements of this Subsection. (See Note A-4.2.6.1.(1).)
Support of Shallow Foundations
1) Where a shallow foundation is to be placed on soil or rock, the soil or rock shall be cleaned of loose and unsound material and shall be adequate to support the design load taking into account temperature, precipitation, construction activities and other factors that may lead to changes in the properties of soil or rock.
4-76 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 4.2.7.4.
4.2.6.3.
4.2.6.4.
4.2.7. 4.2.7.1.
4.2.7.2.
Incorrect Placement of Shallow Foundations
1) Where a shallow foundation unit has not been placed or located as indicated on the drawings,
a) the error shall be corrected, or
b) the design of the foundation unit shall be recalculated for the altered
conditions by the designer and action taken as required in Article 2.2.4.7. of Division C.
Damaged Shallow Foundations
1) If a shallow foundation unit is damaged,
a) it shall be repaired, or
b) the design of the foundation unit shall be recalculated for the damaged
condition by the designer and action taken as required in Article 2.2.4.7. of Division C.
Deep Foundations General
1) A deep foundation shall provide support for a building by transferring loads by end-bearing to a competent stratum at considerable depth below the structure, or by mobilizing resistance by adhesion or friction, or both, in the soil or rock in which it is placed. (See Note A-4.2.7.1.(1).)
Design of Deep Foundations
1) Deep foundations shall be designed in conformance with Subsection 4.2.4. and
this Subsection. (See Note A-4.2.7.2.(1).)
2) Where deep foundation units are load tested, as required in Clause 4.2.4.1.(1)(c), the determination of the number and type of load test and the interpretation of the results shall be carried out by a professional engineer especially qualified in this field of work. (See Note A-4.2.7.2.(2).)
3) The design of deep foundations shall be determined on the basis of geotechnical considerations taking into account
a) the method of installation,
b) the degree of inspection,
c) the spacing of foundation units and group effects,
d) other requirements in this Subsection, and
e) the appropriate structural requirements in Section 4.1. and Subsections 4.3.1., 4.3.3. and 4.3.4.
4) The portion of a deep foundation unit permanently in contact with soil or rock shall be structurally designed as a laterally supported compression member.
5) The portion of a deep foundation unit that is not permanently in contact with soil or rock shall be structurally designed as a laterally unsupported compression member.
6) The structural design of prefabricated deep foundation units shall allow for all stresses resulting from driving, handling and testing.
Tolerance in Alignment and Location
1) Permissible deviations from the design alignment and the location of the top of deep foundation units shall be determined by design analysis and shall be indicated on the drawings.
Incorrect Alignment and Location
1) Where a deep foundation unit has not been placed within the permissible deviations referred to in Article 4.2.7.3., the condition of the foundation shall be assessed by the designer, any necessary changes made and action taken as required in Article 2.2.4.7. of Division C.
4.2.7.3.
4.2.7.4.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 4-77
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 4.2.7.5.
Division B
4.2.7.5.
4.2.7.6.
4.2.8. 4.2.8.1.
4.2.8.2.
Installation of Deep Foundations
1) Deep foundation units shall be installed in such a manner as not to impair
a) the strength of the deep foundation units and the properties of the soil or rock
on or in which they are placed beyond the calculated or anticipated limits,
b) the integrity of previously installed deep foundation units, or
c) the integrity of neighbouring buildings.
Damaged Deep Foundation Units
1) Where inspection shows that a deep foundation unit is damaged or not consistent with design or good engineering practice,
a) such a unit shall be reassessed by the designer,
b) any necessary changes shall be made, and
c) action shall be taken as required in Article 2.2.4.7. of Division C.
Special Foundations General
1) Where special foundation systems are used, such systems shall conform to Subsection 4.2.4., Sentence 4.1.1.5.(2) and Article 1.2.1.1. of Division A.
Use of Existing Foundations
1) Existing foundations may be used to support new or altered buildings provided
they comply with all pertinent requirements of this Section.
Section 4.3. Design Requirements for Structural Materials
4.3.1. 4.3.1.1.
4.3.1.2.
4.3.1.3.
4.3.2. 4.3.2.1.
4.3.3. 4.3.3.1.
Wood
Design Basis for Wood
1) Buildings and their structural members made of wood shall conform to CSA O86, “Engineering Design in Wood.”
Glued-Laminated Members
1) Glued-laminated members shall be fabricated in plants conforming to CSA
O177, “Qualification Code for Manufacturers of Structural Glued-Laminated Timber.”
Termites
1) In areas known to be infested by termites, the requirements in
Articles 9.3.2.9., 9.12.1.1. and 9.15.5.1. shall apply.
Plain and Reinforced Masonry
Design Basis for Plain and Reinforced Masonry
1) Buildings and their structural members made of plain and reinforced masonry shall conform to CSA S304, “Design of Masonry Structures.”
Plain, Reinforced and Pre-stressed Concrete
Design Basis for Plain, Reinforced and Pre-stressed Concrete
1) Buildings and their structural members made of plain, reinforced and pre-stressed concrete shall conform to CSA A23.3, “Design of Concrete Structures.” (See Note A-4.3.3.1.(1).)
4-78 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 4.4.2.1.
4.3.4. 4.3.4.1.
4.3.4.2.
4.3.4.3.
4.3.5. 4.3.5.1.
4.3.6. 4.3.6.1.
Steel
Design Basis for Structural Steel
1) Buildings and their structural members made of structural steel shall conform to CSA S16, “Design of Steel Structures.” (See Note A-4.3.4.1.(1).)
Design Basis for Cold-Formed Steel
1) Buildings and their structural members made of cold-formed steel shall conform to CSA S136, “North American Specification for the Design of Cold-Formed Steel Structural Members (using the Appendix B provisions applicable to Canada).” (See Note A-4.3.4.2.(1).)
Steel Building Systems
1) Steel building systems shall be manufactured by companies certified in accordance with the requirements of CSA A660, “Certification of Manufacturers of Steel Building Systems.”
Aluminum
Design Basis for Aluminum
1) Buildings and their structural members made of aluminum shall conform
to CAN/CSA-S157/S157.1, “Strength Design in Aluminum/Commentary on CSA S157-05, Strength Design in Aluminum,” using the loads stipulated in Section 4.1., in accordance with limit states design in Subsection 4.1.3. National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022
 4.5.1.1. Division B
Section 4.5. Objectives and Functional Statements
4.5.1. Objectives and Functional Statements 4.5.1.1. Attributions to Acceptable Solutions
1) For the purpose of compliance with this Code as required in
Clause 1.2.1.1.(1)(b) of Division A, the objectives and functional statements attributed to the acceptable solutions in this Part shall be the objectives and functional statements listed in Table 4.5.1.1. (See Note A-1.1.2.1.(1).)
Table 4.5.1.1.
Objectives and Functional Statements Attributed to the Acceptable Solutions in Part 4
Forming Part of Sentence 4.5.1.1.(1)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
4.1.1.3. Design Requirements
(1) [F20-OS2.1]
(2) [F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OH4]
(3) [F20-OS2.1] Applies to structural members where temporary overloading during construction may result in impairment of that or any other member.
(4) [F20,F80,F82-OS2.1]
(5) [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
[F20-OS2.3,OS2.4]
4.1.1.5. Design Basis
(2) [F20-OS2.1] [F22-OS2.4,OS2.5] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4,OP2.5] [F22-OH4]
4.1.2.1. Loads and Effects
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OH4]
(2) [F20-OS2.1]
(3) [F20-OS2.1]
4.1.2.2. Loads Not Listed
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OH4]
4.1.3.2. Strength and Stability
(1) [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4] [F20-OS2.1]
(2) [F20-OS2.1]
[F22-OS2.4,OS2.5] Applies to the stabilizing resistance of the dead load.
[F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
(3)
(4)
(5)
(8)
(9)
(11) (12)
Table 4.5.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
[F20-OS2.1]
[F22-OS2.4,OS2.5] Applies to the stabilizing resistance of the dead load.
4-80 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
[F20-OP2.1] [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.4] [F22-OS2.4,OS2.5] [F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OP2.4] [F22-OS2.4,OS2.5]
[F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OP2.4]
4.1.3.3. Fatigue
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(2) [F20-OS2.1]
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.4] [F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OH4]
4.1.3.4. Serviceability
(1) [F22-OP2.4] [F22-OH4]
4.1.3.5. Deflection
(1) (b),(c),(d) [F22-OP2.4] [F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OH4]
(2) [F22-OS2.3,OS2.4] [F22-OP2.4]
(3) [F22-OP2.4]
(5) [F22-OS2.3,OS2.4]
[F22-OP2.3,OP2.4]
                                                              © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
4.5.1.1.
Table 4.5.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
4.1.3.6. Vibration
(1) [F22-OP2.4] [F22-OH4]
(2) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1,OP2.4] [F22-OP2.4] [F22-OH4]
4.1.4.1. Dead Loads
Table 4.5.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
4.1.5.7. More Than One Occupancy
(2) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(3) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(5) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(6) [F20-OS2.1]
[F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OS2.4,OS2.5]
4.1.5.8. Variation with Tributary Area
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OH4]
4.1.5.9. Concentrated Loads
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
4.1.5.10. Sway Forces in Assembly Occupancies
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1,OP2.4]
4.1.5.11. Crane-Supporting Structures and Impact of Machinery and Equipment
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1,OP2.4] [F22-OP2.4]
(3) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1,OP2.4]
(4) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1,OP2.4]
(5) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1,OP2.4]
4.1.5.12. Bleachers
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
(3) [F20-OS2.4]
4.1.5.13. Helicopter Landing Areas
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
4.1.5.14. Loads on Guards and Handrails
(1) [F20-OS2.1]
(2) [F20-OS2.1]
(3) [F20-OS2.1,OS2.4]
(4) [F22-OS2.4]
(6) [F20-OS2.1]
(7) [F20-OS2.1]
4.1.5.15. Loads on Vehicle Guardrails
(1) [F20-OS2.1]
4.1.5.16. Loads on Walls Acting As Guards (1) [F20-OS2.1]
4.1.5.1. Loads Due to Use of Floors and Roofs
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OH4]
4.1.5.2. Uses Not Stipulated
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OH4]
4.1.5.3. Full and Partial Loading
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OH4]
4.1.5.4. Loads for Occupancy Served
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OH4]
4.1.5.5. Loads on Exterior Areas
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OH4]
(2) [F20-OS2.1]
[F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OH4]
(3) [F20-OS2.1]
[F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OH4]
(4) [F20-OS2.1]
[F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4] [F22-OH4]
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division B 4-81
(1)
[F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4] [F22-OH4]
                                                                                        © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 4.5.1.1.
Division B
Table 4.5.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
4.1.5.17. Firewalls
(1) [F20-OS1.2] [F20-OP1.2] [F20-OP3.1]
(2) [F04-OS1.2] [F04-OP1.2] [F04-OP3.1]
4.1.6.2. Specified Snow Load
[F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OP2.4]
Table 4.5.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
(2) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
(3) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
(4) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
4.1.6.6. Horizontal Gap between a Roof and a Higher Roof
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
4.1.6.7. Areas Adjacent to Roof Projections
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
4.1.6.8. Snow Drift at Corners
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
(2) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
4.1.6.9. Gable Roofs
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
(2) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
(4) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
4.1.6.10. Arch Roofs, Curved Roofs and Domes
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(2) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(3) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(5) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(6) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(7) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(8) [F20-OS2.1]
Applies to portion of Code text: “The accumulation factor, Ca, shall be 1.0, ...”
[F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4] Applies to portion of Code text: “The accumulation factor, Ca, shall be 1.0, ...”
(a) to (f) [F20-OS2.1] Applies to roof shapes and configurations that call for a higher accumulation factor.
(a) to (f) [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4] Applies to roof shapes and configurations that call for a higher accumulation factor.
(9) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
4.1.6.3. Full and Partial Loading
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
(2) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
4.1.6.4. Specified Rain Load
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
(2) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
(4) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
4.1.6.5. Multi-level Roofs
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(2) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(3) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(4) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(5) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(6) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(7) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(9) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
[F22-OP2.4] [F22-OP2.4] [F22-OP2.4] [F22-OP2.4] [F22-OP2.4] [F22-OP2.4] [F22-OP2.4] [F22-OP2.4]
4-82 Division B Amended Page National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
                                                                                      © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
4.5.1.1.
Table 4.5.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
4.1.6.11. Snow Loads Due to Sliding
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
(3) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
4.1.6.12. Valleys in Curved or Sloped Roofs
(3)
Table 4.5.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
[F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4] [F22-OH4]
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(2) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(3) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
[F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OP2.4]
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
(8)
(10)
[F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OH4] [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OH4] [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OH4] [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OH4] [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OH4] [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OH4] [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OH4] [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OH4] [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OH4]
[F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OP2.4]
4.1.6.13. Specific Weight of Snow
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
4.1.6.14. Snow Removal
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
4.1.6.15. Ice Loading of Structures
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
4.1.7.1. Specified Wind Load
(2) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
[F22-OH4]
(3) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
[F22-OH4]
(4) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
[F22-OH4]
(5) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(6) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
[F22-OH4]
[F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OP2.4]
4.1.7.4. Topographic Factor
4.1.7.2. Classification of Buildings
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OH4]
(2) [F20-OS2.1]
[F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4] [F22-OH4]
4.1.7.5. External Pressure Coefficients
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division B 4-83
4.1.7.3. Static Procedure
(1)
(2)
[F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4] [F22-OH4]
[F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4] [F22-OH4]
(2)
[F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4] [F22-OH4]
                                                                                         © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 4.5.1.1.
Division B
(3) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
[F22-OH4]
(4) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
[F22-OH4]
(5) [F20-OS2.1]
[F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OP2.4]
(3)
(4)
(2) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
[F22-OH4]
(3) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
[F22-OH4]
(4) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
[F22-OH4]
(5) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
[F22-OH4]
(6) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
[F22-OH4]
(7) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
[F22-OH4]
(8) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
[F22-OH4]
(9) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
[F22-OH4]
[F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OP2.4]
4.1.7.10. Interior Walls and Partitions
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
4.1.7.11. Exterior Ornamentations, Equipment and Appendages
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
4.1.7.12. Wind Tunnel Procedure
Table 4.5.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
Table 4.5.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
[F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4] [F22-OH4]
[F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4] [F22-OH4]
4.1.7.6. External Pressure Coefficients for Low Buildings
(1)
[F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4] [F22-OH4]
4.1.7.7. Internal Pressure Coefficient
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OH4]
4.1.7.8. Dynamic Procedure
4.1.8.1. Analysis
(2) (a) [F20-OS2.1]
(a) [F20-OP2.1,OP2.3] [F22-OP2.4] (b) [F20-OS2.1]
(b) [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
(3) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1,OP2.4]
(4) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
(5) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
(6) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
(7) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
(8) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
[F22-OH4]
(2) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
[F22-OH4]
[F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OP2.4]
4-84 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
4.1.7.9. Full and Partial Wind Loading
(1)
(2)
(3)
[F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4] [F22-OH4]
[F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4] [F22-OH4]
[F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4] [F22-OH4]
                                                                                          © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
4.5.1.1.
(9) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(10) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(11) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(12) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(13) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.3]
(14) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.3]
[F22-OP2.4] [F22-OP2.4] [F22-OP2.4] [F22-OP2.4] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.4]
[F22-OP2.3,OP2.4]
(3) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(4) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(5) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(6) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(7) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(8) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
[F22-OP2.4] [F22-OP2.4] [F22-OP2.4] [F22-OP2.4] [F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OP2.4]
4.1.8.4. Site Properties
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(2) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(4) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(5) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(6) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(9) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
[F22-OP2.4] [F22-OP2.4] [F22-OP2.4] [F22-OP2.4] [F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OP2.4]
Table 4.5.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
Table 4.5.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
4.1.8.6. Structural Configuration
(3) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
4.1.8.7. Methods of Analysis
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
4.1.8.8. Direction of Loading
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
4.1.8.9. SFRS Force Reduction Factors, System Overstrength Factors, and General Restrictions
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
(2) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
(3) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
(4) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
4.1.8.10. Additional System Restrictions
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
(2) (a) [F20-OP2.3] [F22-OP2.4] (b) [F20-OP2.3] [F22-OP2.4] (c) [F20-OP2.3] [F22-OP2.4] (d) [F20-OP2.3] [F22-OP2.4]
(3) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
(4) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
(6) [F22-OS2.3,OS2.4] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.4]
(7) [F22-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
4.1.8.11. Equivalent Static Force Procedure for Structures Satisfying the Conditions of Article 4.1.8.7.
(2) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
(3) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
(4) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
(5) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
4.1.8.3. General Requirements
(2) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1,OP2.4]
4.1.8.5. Importance Factor
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1,OP2.3] [F22-OP2.4]
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division B 4-85
                                                                                         © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 4.5.1.1.
Division B
(6) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(7) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(8) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
[F22-OP2.4] [F22-OP2.4] [F22-OP2.4]
(2)
(3)
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(2) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(3) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
[F22-OP2.4] [F22-OP2.4] [F22-OP2.4]
4.1.8.15. Design Provisions
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1,OP2.3,OP2.4]
(2) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1,OP2.3,OP2.4]
(3) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1,OP2.3,OP2.4]
(4) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
(5) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1,OP2.4]
(6) [F20-OS2.1,OS2.4] [F20-OP2.1,OP2.4]
(7) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
4.1.8.16. Foundation Provisions
(1) [F22-OS2.3,OS2.4] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.4]
(2) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(5) [F20-OS2.2,OS2.4] [F20-OP2.2,OP2.4]
Table 4.5.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
Table 4.5.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
[F22-OS2.3,OS2.4] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.4] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.4] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.4]
(9) (a) [F20-OS2.1]
(a) [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
(b) [F20-OS2.1]
(b) [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
(10) [F20-OS2.1]
[F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
(11) (a) [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
(a) [F20-OS2.1]
(b) [F20-OS2.1]
(b) [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
(12) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
4.1.8.12. Dynamic Analysis Procedure
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
[F22-OS2.3,OS2.4] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.4] [F22-OP4.3] [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3,OS2.4] [F20-OP2.1,OP2.3,OP2.4] [F20-OP4.3] [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3,OS2.4] [F20-OP2.1,OP2.3,OP2.4] [F20-OP4.3] [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3,OS2.4] [F20-OP2.1,OP2.3,OP2.4] [F20-OP4.3]
(4) (a) [F20-OS2.1]
(a) [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
(5) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1,OP2.3] [F22-OP2.4]
(7) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1,OP2.3] [F22-OP2.4]
(8) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(9) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(10) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(12) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
[F22-OP2.4] [F22-OP2.4] [F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OP2.4]
4.1.8.13. Deflections and Drift Limits
(1) [F22-OS2.3,OS2.4] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.4]
4-86 Division B Amended Page
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
4.1.8.14. Structural Separation
                                                                                     © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
4.5.1.1.
Table 4.5.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
(6) (a) [F22-OS2.4] (7) (a) [F22-OP2.4]
Table 4.5.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
(a) [F20,F22-OS2.4]
(a) [F20,F22-OP2.3,OP2.4] (b),(c) [F20,F22-OS2.4]
(b),(c) [F20,F22-OP2.3,OP2.4] (d) [F20,F22-OS2.4]
(d) [F20,F22-OP2.3,OP2.4]
(e) [F20,F22-OS2.4]
(e) [F20,F22-OP2.3,OP2.4] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.4] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.4] [F22-OS2.1,OS2.3,OS2.4] [F22-OP2.1,OP2.3,OP2.4] [F20-OS2.1] [F22-OS2.4] [F20,F22-OP2.3,OP2.4] [F20-OS2.1] [F22-OS2.3] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.3] [F22-OS2.4]
[F20,F22-OS2.4]
[F20-OP2.3] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.4]
(b) [F22-OS2.4] (b) [F22-OP2.4] (c) [F20-OS2.4] (c) [F20-OP2.4]
(7) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1,OP2.4]
(8) (a) [F20-OS2.1] (a) [F20-OP2.1] (b) [F22-OS2.4] (b) [F22-OP2.4]
(9) [F20-OS2.4] [F20-OP2.4]
(10) [F20-OS2.2] [F22-OS2.4] [F20-OP2.2] [F22-OP2.4]
4.1.8.17. Site Stability
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
4.1.8.18. Elements of Structures, Non-structural Components and Equipment
(1) [F20,F22-OS2.4]
[F20-OP2.3] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.4]
(4) [F20,F22-OS2.4] [F20,F22-OP2.3,OP2.4]
(5) [F20,F22-OS2.1] [F20,F22-OP2.1,OP2.4]
(6) [F20,F22-OS2.4] [F20,F22-OP2.3,OP2.4]
(9)
(10)
(11)
(12)
(14) (16)
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division B 4-87
4.1.8.19. Seismic Isolation
(2) [F20-OS2.1] [F22-OS2.4] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
(3) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
(4) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
4.1.8.20. Seismic Isolation Design Provisions
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
(2) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
(3) [F20-OS2.1] [F22-OS2.4] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
(4) [F20-OS2.1] [F22-OS2.4] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
      [F20,F22-OS2.4] Applies to portion of Code text: “Connections to the structure of elements and components listed in
Table 4.1.8.18. shall be designed to support the component or element for gravity loads, shall conform to the requirements of Sentence 4.1.8.18.(1) ...”
   [F20,F22-OP2.3,OP2.4] Applies to portion of Code text: “Connections to the structure of elements and components listed in Table 4.1.8.18. shall be designed to support the component or element for gravity loads, shall conform to the requirements of Sentence 4.1.8.18.(1)...”
                                                                 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 4.5.1.1.
Division B
(5) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(6) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(7) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(9) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(10) [F22-OS2.4]
[F22-OS2.4] [F22-OP2.4] [F22-OS2.4] [F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OP2.4] [F22-OS2.4] [F22-OP2.4]
(1)
(2)
[F20-OS2.2,OS2.6] [F21-OS2.6] [F20-OP2.2] [F21-OP2.6] [F21-OP4.1,OP4.4] [F20-OS2.2,OS2.6] [F21-OS2.6] [F20-OP2.2] [F21-OP2.6] [F21-OP4.1,OP4.4]
Table 4.5.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
Table 4.5.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
4.2.2.4. Altered Subsurface Condition
[F22-OP2.3,OP2.4]
4.1.8.21. Supplemental Energy Dissipation
4.2.3.2. Preservation Treatment of Wood
(1) [F80-OS2.3] [F80-OP2.3] (2) [F82-OS2.3] [F82-OP2.3]
4.2.3.4. Prevention of Deterioration of Masonry
(1) [F80-OS2.3] [F80-OP2.3]
4.2.3.6. Protection Against Chemical Attack
(1) [F80-OS2.3] [F80-OP2.3] 4.2.3.8. Steel Piles (1) [F20-OS2.3] [F20-OP2.3]
4.2.3.9. High Strength Steel Tendons
(2) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(4) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(5) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
[F22-OS2.4] [F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OP2.4]
4.1.8.22. Supplemental Energy Dissipation Design Considerations
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(3) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(4) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(5) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(6) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(7) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(8) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
[F22-OS2.4] [F22-OP2.4] [F22-OS2.4] [F22-OP2.4] [F22-OS2.4] [F22-OP2.4] [F22-OS2.4] [F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OP2.4] [F22-OS2.4] [F22-OP2.4] [F22-OS2.4] [F22-OP2.4]
(1)
[F20,F80-OS2.5,OS2.6] [F20,F80-OP2.6,OP2.5] [F20,F80-OP4.1,OP4.4]
4.2.2.1. Subsurface Investigation
(1) [F20-OS2.2,OS2.6] [F21-OS2.6] [F20-OP2.2] [F21-OP2.6]
[F21-OP4.1,OP4.4]
4.2.2.3. Field Review
(1) [F20-OS2.2,OS2.6] [F21-OS2.6] [F20-OP2.2] [F21-OP2.5]
[F21-OP4.1,OP4.4]
4.2.4.1. Design Basis
(1) [F20-OS2.2,OS2.6] [F21-OS2.6] [F20-OP2.2] [F21-OP2.5]
[F21-OP4.1,OP4.4] (5) [F21-OS2.5]
[F21-OP2.4,OP2.5]
4.2.4.2. Subsurface Investigation
(1) [F20-OS2.2,OS2.6] [F21-OS2.6] [F20-OP2.2] [F21-OP2.6]
[F21-OP4.1,OP4.4]
4.2.4.3. Identification
(1) [F20-OS2.2,OS2.6] [F21-OS2.6] [F20-OP2.2] [F21-OP2.6]
[F21-OP4.1,OP4.4]
4-88 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
4.2.3.10. Corrosion of Steel
(1)
[F80-OS2.3] [F80-OP2.3] [F80-OP4.1]
                                                                                       © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
4.5.1.1.
Table 4.5.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
4.2.4.4. Depth of Foundations
(1) [F21-OP2.4] Applies to portion of Code text: “... the bearing surface of a foundation shall be below the level of potential damage, including damage resulting from frost action ...”
[F21-OP2.4] Applies to portion of Code text: “... the foundation shall be designed to prevent damage resulting from adfreezing and frost jacking.”
(2) [F21-OP2.4]
4.2.4.5. Sloping Ground
(1) [F21-OS2.2] [F21-OP2.2,OP2.6,OP2.4]
4.2.4.6. Eccentric and Inclined Loads
(1) [F20-OS2.1,OS2.2] [F20-OP2.1,OP2.2,OP2.4]
4.2.4.7. Dynamic Loading
(1) [F20-OS2.2] [F20-OP2.2,OP2.6,OP2.4]
[F20-OH4]
4.2.4.8. Hydrostatic Uplift
(1) [F22-OP2.1,OP2.4]
4.2.4.9. Groundwater Level Change
(1) [F21-OP4.1]
4.2.4.10. Permafrost
(1) [F20-OS2.2] [F21-OS2.5] [F20-OP2.2,OP2.4] [F21-OP2.6,OP2.4]
4.2.4.11. Swelling and Shrinking Soils
(1) [F21-OP2.6,OP2.4]
4.2.4.12. Expanding and Deteriorating Rock
(1) [F21-OP2.6,OP2.4]
4.2.4.13. Construction on Fill
(1) (a) [F20-OS2.2] [F21-OS2.5]
(b) [F20-OP2.2,OP2.4] [F21-OP2.6,OP2.4] (c) [F01-OS1.1]
4.2.5.2. Excavation Construction
(1) [F21-OP4.1]
(2) [F20-OS2.6] [F20-OP2.3]
[F20,F21-OP4.1]
4.2.5.3. Supported Excavations
(1) [F20-OS2.6] [F21-OP4.1]
4.2.5.4. Unsupported Excavations
(1) [F20-OS2.6] [F21-OP4.1]
Table 4.5.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
4.2.5.5. Control of Water around Excavations
(1) [F60-OS2.6] [F60-OP4.1,OP4.4]
4.2.5.6. Loss of Ground
(1) [F21-OP4.1]
4.2.5.7. Protection and Maintenance at Excavations
(1) [F80-OS2.6] [F80-OP4.1] 4.2.5.8. Backfilling
(1) (a) [F21-OS2.1]
(a) [F21-OP2.1,OP2.4]
[F21-OP4.1]
(2) [F21-OP2.4]
4.2.6.2. Support of Shallow Foundations
(1) [F20-OS2.2] [F20-OP2.2,OP2.4] [F21-OP2.4]
4.2.6.3. Incorrect Placement of Shallow Foundations
(1) [F20-OS2.2] [F20-OP2.2,OP2.4] [F21-OP2.4]
4.2.6.4. Damaged Shallow Foundations
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1,OP2.4] [F22-OP2.4]
4.2.7.2. Design of Deep Foundations
(3) [F20-OS2.1,OS2.2] [F21-OS2.5] [F20-OP2.1,OP2.2] [F21,F22-OP2.4]
(5) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1,OP2.4] [F22-OP2.4]
(6) [F20-OP2.1,OP2.4]
4.2.7.3. Tolerance in Alignment and Location
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1,OP2.4] [F22-OP2.4]
4.2.7.4. Incorrect Alignment and Location
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1,OP2.4] [F22-OP2.4]
4.2.7.5. Installation of Deep Foundations
(1) [F81-OS2.1] [F21-OS2.2,OS2.6] (c) [F21-OP4.1]
(a),(b) [F81-OP2.1,OP2.4] [F21-OP2.2,OP2.4]
4.2.7.6. Damaged Deep Foundation Units
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division B 4-89
                                                                                     © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 4.5.1.1.
Division B
Table 4.5.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
4.2.8.2. Use of Existing Foundations
(1) [F20-OS2.1,OS2.2] [F20-OP2.1,OP2.2] [F22-OP2.4]
4.3.1.1. Design Basis for Wood
(1) [F22,F21,F80-OH4] [F20-OS2.1] [F80-OS2.3]
[F20-OP2.1] [F21,F22-OP2.4] [F80-OP2.3,OP2.4]
4.3.1.2. Glued-Laminated Members
(1) [F20-OS2.1]
[F20-OP2.1] [F21,F22-OP2.4]
[F21,F22-OH4]
4.3.2.1. Design Basis for Plain and Reinforced Masonry
(1) [F21,F22,F80-OH4] [F20-OS2.1] [F80-OS2.3]
[F20-OP2.1] [F22,F21-OP2.4] [F80-OP2.3,OP2.4]
4.3.3.1. Design Basis for Plain, Reinforced and Pre-stressed Concrete
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F80,F81-OS2.3]
[F20-OP2.1] [F21,F22-OP2.4] [F80,F81-OP2.3,OP2.4] [F21,F22,F80,F81-OH4]
4.3.4.1. Design Basis for Structural Steel
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F80-OS2.3]
[F20-OP2.1] [F20,F22-OP2.4] [F80-OP2.3,OP2.4] [F22,F80-OH4]
4.3.4.2. Design Basis for Cold-Formed Steel
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F80-OS2.3]
[F20-OP2.1] [F20,F22-OP2.4] [F80-OP2.3,OP2.4] [F22,F80-OH4]
4.3.5.1. Design Basis for Aluminum
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F80-OS2.3]
[F20-OP2.1] [F20,F22-OP2.4] [F80-OP2.3,OP2.4] [F22,F80-OH4]
4.3.6.1. Design Basis for Glass
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
4.4.1.1. Design Basis for Air-Supported Structures
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F80-OS2.3] [F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4] [F80-OP2.3] [F22-OH4]
4.4.2.1. Design Basis for Parking Structures and Repair Garages
(1) [F21,F61,F80-OS2.3] [F21,F61,F80-OP2.3,OP2.4]
[F21,F61,F80-OH4]
Table 4.5.1.1. (Continued) Notes to Table 4.5.1.1.:
(1) See Parts 2 and 3 of Division A.
4-90 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
                                            © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
Notes to Part 4 Structural Design
A-4.1.1.3.(1) Structural Integrity. The requirements of Part 4, including the CSA design standards, generally provide a satisfactory level of structural integrity. Additional considerations may, however, be required for building systems made of components of different materials, whose interconnection is not covered by existing CSA design standards, buildings outside the scope of existing CSA design standards, and buildings exposed to severe accidental loads such as vehicle impact or explosion. Further guidance can be found in the Commentary entitled Structural Integrity in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part
4 of Division B).”
A-4.1.1.3.(2) Serviceability. Information on serviceability can be found in the Commentary entitled Deflection and Vibration Criteria for Serviceability and Fatigue Limit States in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
A-4.1.1.5.(2) Structural Equivalents. Sentence 4.1.1.5.(2) provides for the use of design methods not specified in Part 4, including full-scale testing and model analogues. This provision is usually used to permit the acceptance of new and innovative structures or to permit the acceptance of model tests such as those used to determine structural behaviour, or snow or wind loads. Sentence 4.1.1.5.(2) specifically requires that the level of safety and performance be at least equivalent to that provided by design to Part 4 and requires that loads and designs conform to Section 4.1.
Sentence 4.1.1.5.(2) and the provision for alternative solutions stated in Clause 1.2.1.1.(1)(b) of Division A are not intended to allow structural design using design standards other than those listed in Part 4. The acceptance of structures that have been designed to other design standards would require the designer to prove to the appropriate authority that the structure provides the level of safety and performance required by Clause 1.2.1.1.(1)(b) of Division A. The equivalence of safety and performance can only be established by analyzing the structure for the loads and load factors set out in Section 4.1. and by demonstrating that the structure at least meets the requirements of the design standards listed in Sections 4.3. and 4.4.
A-4.1.2.1. Loads and Effects. Information on the definitions can be found in the Commentary entitled Limit States Design in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
A-4.1.2.1.(1) Temperature Changes. Information on effects due to temperature changes can be found in the Commentary entitled Effects of Deformations in Building Components in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
A-4.1.2.1.(3) Major Occupancies. In a building containing more than one major occupancy and classified in more than one Importance Category, the classification of each independent structural system shall be the same as for any part of the building that is dependent on that structural system and for the highest usage group according to Table 4.1.2.1.
These Notes are included for explanatory purposes only and do not form part of the requirements. The number that introduces each Note corresponds to the applicable requirement in this Part.A-Table 4.1.2.1. Importance Categories for Buildings.
Low Importance Category Buildings
Low human-occupancy farm buildings are defined in the National Farm Building Code of Canada 1995. as having an occupant load of 1 person or less per 40 m2 of floor area. Minor storage buildings include only those storage buildings that represent a low direct or indirect hazard to human life in the event of structural failure, either because people are unlikely to be affected by structural failure, or because structural failure causing damage to materials or equipment does not present a direct threat to human life.
Buildings Containing Hazardous Materials
The following buildings contain sufficient quantities of toxic, explosive or other hazardous substances to be classified in the High Importance Category of use and occupancy:
• petrochemical facilities,
• fuelstoragefacilities(otherthanthoserequiredforpost-disasteruse),and • manufacturing or storage facilities for dangerous goods.
The following types of buildings may be classified in the Normal Importance Category: buildings that are equipped with secondary containment of toxic, explosive or other hazardous substances, including but not limited to, double-wall tanks, dikes of sufficient size to contain a spill, or other means to contain a spill
or a blast within the property boundary of the facility and prevent the release of harmful quantities of contaminants to the air, soil, groundwater, surface water or atmosphere, as the case may be.
A-4.1.3. Limit States Design. Information on limit states design can be found in the Commentary entitled Limit States Design in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
A-4.1.3.2.(2) Load Combinations.
Load Combination Equations
The load combinations in Tables 4.1.3.2.-A and 4.1.3.2.-B apply to most situations for loadbearing building structures. Guidance on special situations such as load combinations for fire resistance and building envelopes is given in the Commentary entitled Limit States Design in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
Load Cases and Crane Load Effects
The load combinations in Table 4.1.3.2.-A are to be evaluated for structures with crane load effects for the scenario where the crane loads are zero, and for structures without crane loads. The load combinations in Table 4.1.3.2.-B are to be evaluated for structures with crane loads for the scenario where the crane load effects are other than zero.
Crane Loads
Crane-supporting structures that have cranes in multiple parallel bays should be designed for the maximum vertical crane load with the cranes positioned for the most critical effect in conjunction with a lateral load with each crane in turn positioned for the most critical effect. For load combinations that include crane loads, additional guidance can be found in CISC/ICCA 2013, “Crane-Supporting Steel Structures: Design Guide.”
A-4.1.3.2.(4) Effects of Lateral Earth Pressure, H, Pre-stress, P, and Imposed Deformation, T, in Design Calculations.
Effects of Lateral Earth Pressure, H, in Design Calculations
For common building structures below ground level, such as walls, columns and frames, 1.5 H is added to load combinations 2 to 4. For cantilever retaining wall structures, see the Commentary entitled Limit States Design in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
Effects of Pre-stress, P, and Imposed Deformation, T, in Design Calculations
For structures and building envelopes designed in accordance with the requirements specified in the standards listed in Section 4.3., with the exception of Clauses 8 and 18 of CSA A23.3, “Design of Concrete
4-92
Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022
 Division B A-4.1.5.1.(1)
Structures,” P and T need not be included in the load combinations of Table 4.1.3.2.-A. For structures not within the scope of the standards listed in Section 4.3., including building envelopes, P and T must be taken into account in the design calculations. For recommended load combinations including T, see the Commentary entitled Limit States Design in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
A-4.1.3.2.(5) Overturning, Uplift or Sliding. Information on overturning, uplift and sliding can be found in the Commentary entitled Limit States Design in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
A-4.1.3.3.(1) Failure due to Fatigue. Failure due to fatigue of building structures referred to in Section 4.3. and designed for serviceability in accordance with Article 4.1.3.6. is, in general, unlikely except for girders supporting heavily used cranes, on which Article 4.1.5.11. provides guidance.
A-4.1.3.3.(2) Vibration Effects. Guidance on vibration effects can be found in the Commentary entitled Deflection and Vibration Criteria for Serviceability and Fatigue Limit States in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
A-4.1.3.4.(1) Loads and Load Combinations for Serviceability. The loads and load combinations for serviceability depend on the serviceability limit states and on the properties of the structural materials. Information on loads and load combinations for the serviceability limit states, other than those controlled by deflection, can be found in the Commentary entitled Deflection and Vibration Criteria for Serviceability and Fatigue Limit States in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
A-4.1.3.5.(1) Deflections. Serviceability criteria for deflections that cause damage to non-structural building components can be found in the standards listed in Section 4.3. Information on deflections can be found in the Commentary entitled Deflection and Vibration Criteria for Serviceability and Fatigue Limit States in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).” Information on loads and load combinations for calculating deflection can be found in the Commentary entitled Limit States Design in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
A-4.1.3.5.(3) Lateral Deflection of Buildings. The limitation of 1/500 drift per storey may be exceeded if it can be established that the drift as calculated will not result in damage to non-structural elements. Information on lateral deflection can be found in the Commentary entitled Wind Load and Effects in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
A-4.1.3.6.(1) Floor Vibration. Information on floor vibration can be found in the Commentary entitled Deflection and Vibration Criteria for Serviceability and Fatigue Limit States in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).” Information on loads and load combinations for the calculation of vibration can be found in the Commentary entitled Limit States Design in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
A-4.1.3.6.(2) Dynamic Analyses of Floor Vibrations. Information on a dynamic analysis of floor vibrations from rhythmic activities can be found in the Commentary entitled Deflection and Vibration Criteria for Serviceability and Fatigue Limit States in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part
4 of Division B).”
A-4.1.3.6.(3) Lateral Vibration Under Wind Load. Information on lateral vibrations and accelerations under dynamic wind loads can be found in the Commentary entitled Wind Load and Effects in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
A-4.1.4.1.(6) Counteracting Dead Load Due to Soil. Examples of structures that traditionally employ the dead load of soil to resist loadings are pylon signs, tower structures, retaining walls, and deadmen, which resist wind uplift and overturning in light structures.
A-4.1.5.1.(1) Loads Due to Use of Floors and Roofs. In many areas of buildings, such as equipment areas, service rooms, factories, storage areas, warehouses, museums, and office filing areas, live loads due to their intended use may exceed the minimum specified loads listed in Table 4.1.5.3. In these instances, the probable live load shall be calculated and used as the specified live load for the design of that particular area.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 4-93
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-Table 4.1.5.3. Division B
A-Table 4.1.5.3. Considerations for Live Loads.
Arenas, Grandstands and Stadia
The designer should give special consideration to the effects of vibration.
Attics - Limited Accessibility
Attic live loading is not required when the ceiling below the attic consists of removable panels that permit access to the ceiling space without loading the ceiling supporting members. Attic live loading is not required in any area of the attic where the least dimension of the attic space is less than 500 mm.
Corridors, Aisles and Rows of Seats
The spaces between rows of seats are typically designed for the loads of the occupancy they serve. Rows of seats typically discharge into aisles that are designed for the loads used for the rows of seats. Corridors have a minimum width of 1 100 mm and may serve as collectors for aisles; they are therefore part of the exit system and are required to be designed for a minimum live load of 4.8 kPa.
Floor Areas That Could Be Used As Viewing Areas
Some interior balconies, mezzanines, corridors, lobbies and aisles that are not intended to be used by an assembly of people as viewing areas are sometimes used as such; consequently, they are subject to loadings much higher than those for the occupancies they serve. Floor areas that may be subject to such higher loads must, therefore, be designed for a loading of 4.8 kPa.
Lecture Halls and Classrooms
For the purposes of applying the requirements of Table 4.1.5.3., lecture halls with fixed seats are similar to theatres in configuration (the seats may have a writing tablet affixed to one arm). Classrooms are typically furnished with full-sized desks having separate or integrated seats.
Minimum Roof Live Load
Articles 4.1.5.3. and 4.1.5.10. stipulate a minimum uniform roof live load of 1.0 kPa and a minimum concentrated live load of 1.3 kN. These live loads are “use and occupancy loads” intended to provide for maintenance loadings: they are not reduced as a function of area or as a function of the roof slope due to their variability in distribution and location.
Vehicle Loads
A special study should be undertaken to determine the distributed loads to be used for the design of floors and areas used by vehicles exceeding 9 000 kg gross weight and of driveways and sidewalks over areaways and basements. Where appropriate, the designer should refer to CSA S6, “Canadian Highway Bridge Design Code.”
A-4.1.5.5. Loads on Exterior Areas. In Article 4.1.5.5., “accessible” refers to the lack of a physical barrier that prevents or restricts access by vehicles or persons to the site in the context of the specific use.
A-4.1.5.8. Tributary Area. Information on tributary area can be found in the Commentary entitled Live Loads in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
A-Table 4.1.5.9. Loads Due to Concentrations. Special study is required to determine concentrated loads for the design of floors and areas used by vehicles exceeding 9 000 kg gross weight, and of driveways and sidewalks over areaways and basements. Where appropriate the designer should refer to CSA S6, “Canadian Highway Bridge Design Code.”
A-4.1.5.11. Crane-Supporting Structures. Guidance on crane-supporting structures can be found in CSA S16, “Design of Steel Structures.”
A-4.1.5.14. and 4.1.5.15.(1) Design of Guards. In the design of guards, due consideration should be given to the durability of the members and their connections.
4-94 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B A-4.1.6.4.(3)
A-4.1.5.17. Loads on Firewalls. Information on loads on firewalls can be found in the Commentary entitled Structural Integrity of Firewalls in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part
4 of Division B).”
A-4.1.6.2. Coefficients for Snow Loads on Roofs. Information on coefficients for snow loads on roofs can be found in the Commentary entitled Snow Loads in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
A-4.1.6.2.(2) Basic Roof Snow Load Factor. Figure A-4.1.6.2.(2) shows the basic roof snow load factor, Cb, plotted against .
Figure A-4.1.6.2.(2)
Basic roof snow load factor, Cb
A-4.1.6.3.(2) Full and Partial Loading under Snow Loads. Information on full and partial snow loading on roofs can be found in the Commentary entitled Snow Loads in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
A-4.1.6.4.(1) Rain Loads. Information on rain loads can be found in the Commentary entitled Rain Loads in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
A-4.1.6.4.(3) Flow Control Drains. The National Plumbing Code of Canada 2015 (NPC) contains requirements regarding the use of flow control roof drains. The designer must ensure that the building complies with both the NPC and the NBC.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 4-95
    2.20 2.00 1.80 1.60 1.40 1.20 1.00 0.80
0 100
200 300
2 IcCw
400 500 600
EG01300A
 Cw = 1.0 Cw = 0.75 Cw = 0.5
 Cb
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

  A-4.1.6.7.(1) Division B
A-4.1.6.7.(1) Roof Projections. Elevator, air-conditioning and fan housings, small penthouses and wide chimneys are examples of roof projections.
Figure A-4.1.6.7.(1) Roof projections
A-4.1.6.7.(2) Values of Ca for Small Roof Projections. Calculating Ca in accordance with Article 4.1.6.5. rather than Sentence 4.1.6.7.(1) results in lower values for small projections.
A-4.1.6.9. Snow on Gable Roofs.
Figure A-4.1.6.9.
Load cases for gable roofs
Notes to Figure A-4.1.6.9.:
(1) CaseIIloadingdoesnotapplytogableroofswithslopesof15°orless,tosingle-sloped(shed)roofs,ortoflatroofs. (2) The value of Cw for load case I is as prescribed in Sentences 4.1.6.2.(3) and (4).
(3) Varies as a function of slope, α, as defined in Sentences 4.1.6.2.(5) and (6).
4-96 Division B Amended Page National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
      h
Ca0
Roof Projection
l0
x
x d = 23 l 0
   Drift
 EG01303B
      Upwind Side
Case I
Case II
Downwind Side
α
 Wind
      Load Case
Roof Slope, α
Factors
 Cw
Cs
Ca on upwind side
Ca on downwind side
I
0° ≤ α ≤ 90°
(2)
f(α)(3)
1.0
1.0
II(1)
15° < α ≤ 20° 20° < α ≤ 90°
1.0 1.0
f(α)(3)
0.0 0.0
0.25 + α/20 1.25
     EG01306B
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

  Division B A-4.1.7.5.(2) and (3)
A-4.1.7.1.(6) Computational Fluid Dynamics (CFD). It is not currently possible to verify the reliability and accuracy of CFD and no standards address it; as such, this method is not permitted to be used to determine specified wind loads.
A-4.1.7.2. Natural Frequency. Information on calculating the natural frequency of a building can be found in the Commentary entitled Wind Load and Effects in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
A-4.1.7.3.(5)(c) Procedure for Calculating Intermediate Ce. Information on calculating intermediate values of Ce between two exposures can be found in the Commentary entitled Wind Load and Effects in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
A-4.1.7.3.(10) Internal Gust Effect Factor, Cgi. The effect of building envelope flexibility can be included in the calculation of Cgi. See the Commentary entitled Wind Load and Effects in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
A-4.1.7.5.(2) and (3) Pressure Coefficients for Main Structural System on Rectangular Buildings.
Figure A-4.1.7.5.(2) and (3)
Values of Cp for main structural system on rectangular buildings
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Amended Page Division B 4-97
     On roof HD
Cp = −1.0 for D ≥ 1.0
Cp = −1.0 for x ≤ H }H < 1.0
X
CeCp
H
Cp = −0.27 (D + 0.88)
for 0.25 ≤ H < 1.0 D
On leeward face Cp = −0.3 for H < 0.25
           Cp = −0.5 for x > H Ce = Ce(H)
D
Wind
CeCp
Cp = −0.5 for HD ≥ 1.0 Ce = Ce(H/2)
                     On side walls
Ce = Ce(H) Cp = −0.7
    CeCp
     On windward face
          HH Cp = 0.6 for D < 0.25
CeCp
CeCp
          Cp = 0.27 (HD + 2)
for 0.25 ≤ H < 1.0 D
Cp = 0.8 for HD ≥ 1.0 Ce = Ce(Z)
Z
D
Wind
W
                         Elevation View of Building
Plan View of Building
EG01398A
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

  A-4.1.7.5.(4) Division B
A-4.1.7.5.(4) Pressure coefficients for roof and wall claddings and secondary structural supports of cladding on rectangular buildings.
Figure A-4.1.7.5.(4)
Values of Cp for roof and wall claddings and secondary structural supports of cladding on rectangular buildings
Notes to Figure A-4.1.7.5.(4):
(1) ThelargerofWorDistobeused.
(2) Whereverticalribsdeeperthan1marepresentonthewalls,thedimensions0.1Dand0.1Wmustbechangedto0.2Dand0.2Wandthe
negative value of Cp must be changed from –1.2 to –1.4.
A-4.1.7.8.(2) and (3) Exposure Factor for Dynamic Procedure.
4-98
Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Figure A-4.1.7.8.(2) and (3)
Exposure factor, Ce, for dynamic procedure Notes to Figure A-4.1.7.8.(2) and (3):
(1) (2)
Curve A represents Ce for open terrain, as defined in Clause 4.1.7.3.(5)(a). Curve B represents Ce for rough terrain, as defined in Clause 4.1.7.3.(5)(b).
  0.1(W or D)(1)
H
Z
Cp = +0.9 and –1.2(2)
Cp = –2.3
Cp = –1.5 W
0.2(W or D)(1) 0.1(W or D)(1)
0.2(W or D)(1)
0.1(W or D)(1)
     Cp = ±0.9
    Cp = –1.0
  D
  D
Elevation View of Building
Plan View of Building
EG01352A
   400 300
200
100 80
60 50 40
30 20
10 8 6
5 4
3 2
1
0.1 0.2
0.3 0.4
0.6 0.8 1
2 3 4
5 6
8 10
EG00914C
Exposure factor, Ce
  B
A
                                   Height above ground, m
         © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
A-4.1.7.8.(4)
A-4.1.7.8.(4) Peak Factor, Size Reduction Factor and Gust Energy Ratio.
Figure A-4.1.7.8.(4)-A Peak factor, gp
Figure A-4.1.7.8.(4)-B Size reduction factor, s
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division B 4-99
    6.0
5.0
4.0
3.0
2.0
1.0
0
0.02 0.040.060.1 0.2 0.40.60.81 2 4
Average Fluctuation Rate, ν cycles/second
EG00919C
  gp = 2 ln(νT) + 0.577 2 ln(νT)
T = 3600 s
                                   Peak Factor, gp
           w
 /H = 2.0
1.0
0.5
0.2
0.1
0
 s=π11
3 1+ 8fnH 1+10fnw
3VH VH
                                         5.0 4.0
3.0 2.0
1.0 0.7 0.5
0.3 0.2
0.1
0.001 0.002 0.004 0.007 0.01 0.02 0.03 0.05 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.5 1.0
Size Reduction Factor, s
EG00917B
      Reduced Frequency, fn VH H
               © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-4.1.7.9.(1) Division B
Figure A-4.1.7.8.(4)-C Gust energy ratio, F
A-4.1.7.9.(1) Full and Partial Wind Loading. Information on full and partial loading under wind loads can be found in the Commentary entitled Wind Load and Effects in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
Figure A-4.1.7.9.(1)
Full and partial wind loading
A-4.1.7.11. Exterior Ornamentations, Equipment and Appendages. Appendages may increase the overall forces in the design of the building structure and need to be accounted for.
4-100 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
   1.00 0.80
0.60
0.40 0.30
0.20
0.10 0.08
0.06
0.04 0.03
0.02
0.01
0.0001 0.001 0.01 0.1 1.0
Wave Number, fn/VH, waves/m EG00918B
  x 20 F=
(1 + x20 ) 4/3 x0 = (1220 fn/VH)
                                           Gust Energy Ratio, F
                pL Case A: full wind pressure applied in
both directions separately
pL or
pW
0.38pW
0.38pL
0.75pW
0.75pL
pW
0.75pW
0.75pW 0.75pL
0.75pL
Case C: 75% of full wind pressure applied
in both directions simultaneously
   pW
pW
pL or
   pL Case B: Case A wind pressure applied
only on parts of wall faces
Case D: 50% of Case C wind load removed from part of projected area
EG00942B
0.75pW 0.38pW
0.75pL 0.38pL
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B A-4.1.8.7.(1)
A-4.1.8.2.(1) Notation.
Definition of ex
Information on the calculation of torsional moments can be found in the Commentary entitled Design for Seismic Effects in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
Definition of W
Information on the definition of dead load, W, can be found in the Commentary entitled Design for Seismic Effects in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
A-4.1.8.3.(4) General Design of the SFRS. Information on the general design requirements for the SFRS can be found in the Commentary entitled Design for Seismic Effects in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
A-4.1.8.3.(6) General Design of Stiff Elements. Information on the general design requirements for stiff elements can be found in the Commentary entitled Design for Seismic Effects in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
A-4.1.8.3.(7)(b) and (c) Stiffness Imparted to the Structure from Elements Not Part of the SFRS. Information on stiffness imparted to the structure from elements not part of the SFRS can be found in the Commentary entitled Design for Seismic Effects in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
A-4.1.8.3.(8) Structural Modeling. Information on structural modeling can be found in the Commentary entitled Design for Seismic Effects in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
A-4.1.8.4.(3) and Table 4.1.8.4.-A Site Class. Information on Site Class can be found in the Commentary entitled Design for Seismic Effects in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
A-Table 4.1.8.5. Serviceability Limit States for Earthquake. Information on serviceability limit states for earthquake can be found in the Commentary entitled Design for Seismic Effects in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
A-Table 4.1.8.6. Structural Irregularities.
Structural Irregularities
Information on structural irregularities can be found in the Commentary entitled Design for Seismic Effects in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
Gravity-Induced Lateral Demand – Type 9 Irregularity
Uncoupled concrete and masonry shear walls where a large fraction of the overturning resistance is provided by axial compression, rather than through yielding of the longitudinal reinforcement, are less susceptible to amplified displacements due to gravity-induced lateral demands because the axial loads have a self-centering effect on the shear walls. Walls that are stronger than the foundation and other systems such as coupled walls, braced frames, and moment frames are more susceptible to amplified displacements due to gravity-induced lateral demands. A lower limit on α is thus specified for such systems. Further information on the impacts of gravity-induced lateral demands on the seismic response of buildings can be found in the Commentary entitled Design for Seismic Effects in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
A-4.1.8.7.(1) Dynamic Analysis Procedures. Information on dynamic analysis procedures can be found in the Commentary entitled Design for Seismic Effects in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 4-101
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-Table 4.1.8.9. Division B
A-Table 4.1.8.9. Industrial-Type Steel Structures. Guidance on the height limits, system restrictions and additional analysis and design requirements for steel SFRSs in industrial-type structures, intended essentially to support equipment, tanks or an industrial process, can be found in Annex M, Seismic Design of Industrial Steel Structures, of CSA S16, “Design of Steel Structures.”
A-4.1.8.9.(4) Vertical Variations in RdRo. Information on vertical variations in RdRo can be found in the Commentary entitled Design for Seismic Effects in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
A-4.1.8.9.(5) RdRo and Equivalent Systems. Information on the RdRo of equivalent systems can be found in the Commentary entitled Design for Seismic Effects in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
A-4.1.8.10.(4) Mid-rise Timber SFRS. Information on structural irregularities in mid-rise wood construction and on how to determine the number of storeys for application in Sentence 4.1.8.10.(4) can be found in the Commentary entitled Design for Seismic Effects in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
A-4.1.8.10.(5) Gravity-Induced Lateral Demand – Type 9 Irregularity. Structural systems that include components such as inclined columns or horizontal floor cantilevers can induce lateral force demands on the SFRS under gravity loads. Buildings with such gravity-induced lateral demands on the SFRS are more likely to experience severe damage during strong ground shaking due to their tendency to drift only in one direction, leading to large residual displacements or instability. To determine if a building is susceptible to amplification of displacements due to gravity-induced lateral demands, the lateral resistance of the yielding mechanism to resist earthquake forces alone, Qy, must be compared with the gravity-induced lateral demand, QG, at the same location. The force component selected for this comparison depends on the yielding mechanism for the SFRS. For example, for a coupled wall, the overturning moment resistance at the level of the expected plastic hinges should be compared with the overturning moment demand (at the same level) due to gravity loads alone, whereas for a steel-braced frame, the storey shear at the critical level of the yielding system should be compared with the storey shear demand (at the same level) due to the gravity loads alone. If the gravity-induced lateral demands exceed the limits prescribed in Sentence 4.1.8.10.(7), amplifications in seismic displacements due to gravity-induced lateral demands can only be identified through non-linear dynamic analyses using models that adequately represent the hysteretic behaviour of the SFRS. Further information
on the impacts of gravity-induced lateral demands on the seismic response of buildings can be found in the Commentary entitled Design for Seismic Effects in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
A-4.1.8.10.(7) Gravity-Induced Lateral Demand – Non-Linear Dynamic Analysis. Information on non-linear dynamic analysis can be found in the Commentary entitled Design for Seismic Effects in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
A-4.1.8.11.(3) Determination of the Fundamental Period, Ta. Information on the determination of the fundamental period, Ta, can be found in the Commentary entitled Design for Seismic Effects in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
A-4.1.8.12.(1)(a) Linear Dynamic Analysis. Information on Linear Dynamic Analysis can be found in the Commentary entitled Design for Seismic Effects in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
A-4.1.8.12.(1)(b) Non-linear Dynamic Analysis. Information on Non-linear Dynamic Analysis can be found in the Commentary entitled Design for Seismic Effects in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
A-4.1.8.12.(3) Ground Motion Histories. Information on ground motion histories can be found in the Commentary entitled Design for Seismic Effects in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
A-4.1.8.12.(4)(a) Accidental Torsional Moments. Information on accidental torsional moments can be found in the Commentary entitled Design for Seismic Effects in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
4-102 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
  © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B A-4.1.8.15.(7)
A-4.1.8.13.(4) Deflections and Sway Effects. Information on deflections and sway effects can be found in the Commentary entitled Design for Seismic Effects in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
A-4.1.8.15.(1) Diaphragms and their Connections. Information on diaphragms and their connections can be found in the Commentary entitled Design for Seismic Effects in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
A-4.1.8.15.(3) Ductile Diaphragms. Information on the design of struts, collectors, chords and connections for ductile diaphragms can be found in the Commentary entitled Design for Seismic Effects in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
A-4.1.8.15.(4) Influence of Dynamic Diaphragm In-plane Response.
Clause 4.1.8.15.(4)(a)
In lieu of carrying out a special study as stated in Subclause 4.1.8.15.(4)(a)(iii), the anticipated total deformation demand on the vertical elements of the SFRS, including inelastic deformations, may be taken as equal to RoRd(ΔB + ΔD) - RoΔD, i.e., the difference between the total storey drift including inelastic deformation effects and diaphragm deformations, RoRd(ΔB + ΔD), and the diaphragm deformation under Ro times the seismic load, where Ro may be replaced by the actual overstrength of the SFRS vertical elements. The design engineer must verify that the SFRS vertical elements have sufficient deformation capacity
to accommodate the computed deformation demand. If the vertical elements of the SFRS do not have sufficient deformation capacity, the design forces for the vertical elements of the SFRS must be magnified by Rd(1 + ΔD/ΔB)/(Rd + ΔD/ΔB). The calculation of the magnified design forces is iterative as the ΔD/ΔB ratio may change when using higher design forces for the vertical elements of the SFRS. Reducing the ΔD/ΔB ratio by increasing the stiffness of the roof diaphragm relative to that of the vertical elements of the SFRS may be considered to reduce the deformation demand on the vertical elements of the SFRS. Additional information can be found in the Commentary entitled Design for Seismic Effects in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
Clause 4.1.8.15.(4)(b)
The dynamic response of the diaphragm with the vertical elements of the SFRS under seismic excitation involves several modes of vibration that affect both the amplitude and distribution of in-plane shears and bending moments in the roof diaphragm. The shape of the fundamental mode of vibration resembles the deflected shape of the diaphragm/vertical SFRS elements under a distributed lateral load while higher modes involve increasing numbers of zero crossings of the deflected shapes along the length of the diaphragm, similar to the modes of a simply supported beam with distributed mass. Shears and bending moments therefore deviate from the values obtained from the equivalent static force procedure essentially due to higher mode response. Modal contributions to shears and bending moments in the diaphragms can be obtained from a Linear Dynamic Analysis. The contribution from the higher modes is generally more pronounced when the ΔD/ΔB ratio, the period in the first mode, or the ratio Sa(0.2)/Sa(2.0) is increased. It also increases when the SFRS is designed with a higher Rd factor as inelastic deformations of the vertical elements of the SFRS attenuate the first mode response. Methods to take into account the inelastic higher mode effects on in-plane diaphragm shears and moments are discussed in the Commentary entitled Design for Seismic Effects in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
A-4.1.8.15.(5) Discontinuities. Information on elements supporting discontinuities can be found in the Commentary entitled Design for Seismic Effects in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
A-4.1.8.15.(6) Vertical Variations in RdRo. Information on elements of the SFRS below the variation in RdRo can be found in the Commentary entitled Design for Seismic Effects in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
A-4.1.8.15.(7) Concurrent Yielding. Information on the effects of concurrent yielding of elements can be found in the Commentary entitled Design for Seismic Effects in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 4-103
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-4.1.8.15.(8) Division B
A-4.1.8.15.(8) Design Force in Elements. Information on the design force in elements can be found in the Commentary entitled Design for Seismic Effects in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
A-4.1.8.16.(1) Foundation Movement. The bearing stress distribution in soil or rock that is used to determine the factored overturning resistance of the foundation influences the rotation of the foundation, which occurs due to the forces applied by the SFRS. Generally, all foundations will rotate on soil or rock. In particular, footings (a type of foundation unit) often undergo uplift at one end, and if the factored bearing stress at the other end is only over a short length, then the uplift and rotation of the footing can be significant. CSA A23.3, “Design of Concrete Structures,” contains design requirements for footings that rotate and uplift; see also the Commentary entitled Design for Seismic Effects in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B)” for guidance and methods to account for foundation movement.
A-4.1.8.16.(2) Actual Lateral Load Capacity of the SFRS. The actual lateral load capacity of
the SFRS includes the effects of member overstrengths similar to those used to determine the Ro factors.
The applicable CSA design standards include requirements on calculating the overstrengths and capacities, which may be based on the members’ nominal or probable resistance. The actual capacities are larger than the factored loads and factored resistances and, in many cases, can be significantly larger. Note that the foundations designed to develop the capacity of the SFRS will undergo movements and Sentence 4.1.8.16.(1) still applies.
A-4.1.8.16.(4) Overturning Resistance of the Foundation. For the special case where the foundation is a footing, and where it and the attached SFRS are not constrained against rotation, it is permitted, with certain limitations, to size the footing to have a factored overturning resistance less than the overturning capacity of the supported SFRS. This approach results in a smaller footing, increased footing rotations, increased drifts in the structure, and increased soil stresses, all of which are over and above those associated with footings sized to have a factored overturning resistance equal to or greater than the overturning capacity of the SFRS. The footing itself must have a factored resistance capable of developing the required soil or
rock reactions. An example of a footing and SFRS that are not constrained against rotation is an SFRS on a footing near the ground surface such that it can rotate freely and is attached to a gravity-load-resisting system (non-SFRS) that is laterally flexible and provides little lateral resistance. For this case, the SFRS is usually analyzed on its own and the resulting displacements are imposed on the non-SFRS elements in order to assess the effects on them. Cases where the footing and SFRS are attached to a system that has significant lateral stiffness require careful analysis and engineering judgement, or the footing can be capacity-designed.
Limiting the overturning moment on the foundation and the RdRovalue provides some control on the increase in lateral displacement, drift and stress in the soil or rock. Cases that exceed these limits require special study.
For the common case where the SFRS and/or the footing are constrained in some way against rotation, the footing’s factored resistance must be equal to or greater than the capacity of the supported SFRS. An example of an SFRS constrained against freely rotating with the footing is an SFRS attached to adjacent foundation walls by below-grade diaphragms. Examples of footings constrained against free rotation are footings that use soil anchors to resist overturning, footings on piles, and raft foundations. Note that Sentence 4.1.8.16.(1) still applies.
See CSA A23.3, “Design of Concrete Structures,” and the Commentary entitled Design for Seismic Effects in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
A-4.1.8.16.(6)(a) Interconnection of Foundation Elements. Information on the interconnection of piles or pile caps, drilled piers, and caissons can be found in the Commentary entitled Design for Seismic Effects in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
A-4.1.8.16.(7) Earthquake Lateral Pressures from Backfill or Natural Ground. Information on methods of computing the seismic lateral pressures from backfill or natural ground can be found in the Commentary entitled Design for Seismic Effects in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
A-4.1.8.16.(8)(a) Cyclic Inelastic Behaviour of Foundation Elements. Information on the cyclic inelastic behaviour of piles or pile caps, drilled piers, and caissons can be found in the Commentary entitled Design for Seismic Effects in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
A-4.1.8.16.(9) Alternative Foundation Ties. Alternative methods of tying foundations together, such as a properly reinforced floor slab capable of resisting the required tension and compression forces, may be used. Passive soil pressure against buried pile caps may not be used to resist these forces.
4-104 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B A-4.1.8.21.(2)
A-4.1.8.16.(10) Liquefaction. Information on liquefaction can be found in the Commentary entitled Design for Seismic Effects in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
A-4.1.8.17.(1) Slope Stability. Information on slope instability can be found in the Commentary entitled Design for Seismic Effects in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
A-4.1.8.18. Elements of Structures, Non-structural Components and Equipment. Information on the requirements of Article 4.1.8.18. can be found in the Commentary entitled Design for Seismic Effects in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
A-Table 4.1.8.18. Non-structural Components and Equipment. The failure or detachment of non-structural components and equipment during an earthquake can present a major threat to life safety. The design requirements presented in Article 4.1.8.18. are intended to ensure that such components and their connections to the building will retain their integrity during strong ground shaking. Guidelines for the seismic risk reduction of such components are given in CSA S832, “Seismic Risk Reduction of Operational and Functional Components (OFCs) of Buildings.”
A-4.1.8.18.(13) Storage Racks. Free-standing steel pallet storage racks contain only materials typically loaded by forklift. They are designed to store loaded pallets, however in some cases, the stored material
does not sit on a pallet. There is no occupancy within the racks. Information on racks can be found in the Commentary entitled Design for Seismic Effects in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
A-4.1.8.18.(14) and (15) Glass Fallout and Failure. Information on glass fallout and testing for glass fallout can be found in AAMA 501.6, “Recommended Dynamic Test Method For Determining The Seismic Drift Causing Glass Fallout From A Wall System.” Every surface other than inaccessible areas or areas where occupancy is prevented or access is prevented should be considered a “walking surface.” Additional information can be found in ASCE/SEI 7, “Minimum Design Loads for Buildings and Other Structures,” in FEMA P-750, “NEHRP Recommended Seismic Provisions for New Buildings and Other Structures,” and FEMA 450-1, “NEHRP Recommended Provisions for Seismic Regulations for New Buildings and Other Structures,”and related commentaries, and in the Commentary entitled Design for Seismic Effects in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
A-4.1.8.19.(2) Design Review. It is strongly recommended that a design review of the seismically isolated structure and its isolation system be carried out by an independent team of professional engineers and geoscientists experienced in seismic analysis methods and the theory and application of seismic isolation. The design review should include, but not be limited to, the following:
(a) site-specific spectra,
(b) ground motion time histories,
(c) modeling and analyses,
(d) testing program and results, and
(e) finaldesignofallstructuralframingelementsandisolationsystemcomponents.
A-4.1.8.19.(3)(a) Non-Linear Dynamic Analysis. Three-dimensional Non-Linear Dynamic Analysis is a complex process requiring special expertise. Guidance on Non-linear Dynamic Analysis can be found in the Commentary entitled Design for Seismic Effects in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
A-4.1.8.19.(4) and 4.1.8.21.(5) Ground Motion Time Histories. Ground motion time histories and their horizontal and vertical components must be appropriately selected and scaled according to accepted practice. Further information on ground motion time histories can be found in the Commentary entitled Design for Seismic Effects in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
A-4.1.8.21.(2) Design Review. It is strongly recommended that a design review of the structure and the supplementary energy dissipation system be carried out by an independent team of professional engineers and geoscientists experienced in seismic analysis methods and the theory and application of supplementary energy dissipation. The design review should include, but not be limited to, the following:
(a) ground motion time histories, (b) modeling and analyses,
(c) testing program and results, and
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Amended Page Division B 4-105
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-4.1.8.21.(4)(a) Division B
(d) finaldesignofallstructuralframingelementsandsupplementalenergydissipationsystemcomponents.
A-4.1.8.21.(4)(a) Non-linear Dynamic Analysis. Three-dimensional Non-linear Dynamic Analysis is a complex process requiring special expertise. Guidance on Non-linear Dynamic Analysis can be found in the Commentary entitled Design for Seismic Effects in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
A-4.2.2.1.(1) Subsurface Investigation – Ochre Deposition. Ochre deposition is a little known phenomenon that is becoming increasingly widespread. It is not specific to certain regions but is associated with soil characteristics and groundwater conditions. Microorganisms, which are generally found in water-saturated soil, extract oxygen from elements such as iron, reducing it to ferrous ions. Once the iron has been reduced and solubilized, it migrates through the soil to foundation drains and can block them. The following document describes the factors to be taken into account in assessing the risk of ochre deposition in the drainage systems of new buildings: BNQ 3661-500, “Dépôts d’ocre dans les systèmes de drainage des bâtiments – Partie I : Évaluation du risque pour la construction de nouveaux bâtiments et diagnostic pour des bâtiments existants et Partie II : Méthodes d'installation proposées pour nouveaux bâtiments et bâtiments existants.”.
A-4.2.2.3.(1) Responsibilities of the Designer as Defined in Part 4. In certain situations, such as when the design is highly technical, it may be necessary for the “other suitably qualified person” to be someone responsible to the designer. In such cases the authority having jurisdiction may wish to order that the review be done by the designer.
A-4.2.4.1.(1) Innovative Designs. It is important that innovative approaches to foundation design be carried out by a person especially qualified in the specific method applied and that the design provide a level of safety and performance at least equivalent to that provided for or implicit in the design carried out by the methods referred to in Part 4. Provision must be made for monitoring the subsequent performance of such structures so that the long-term sufficiency of the design can be evaluated.
A-4.2.4.1.(3) Ultimate Limit States for Foundations. Information on ultimate limit states for foundations, including terminology and resistance factors, can be found in the Commentary entitled Foundations in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
A-4.2.4.1.(5) Design of Foundations for Differential Movements. Information on the design of foundations for differential movements can be found in the Commentary entitled Foundations in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
A-4.2.4.4.(1) Depth of Foundations. When adfreezing has occurred and subsequent freezing results in soil expansion beneath this area, the resulting uplift effect is sometimes referred to as frost jacking.
A heated building that is insulated to prevent heat loss through the foundation walls should be considered as an unheated structure unless the effect of the insulation is taken into account in determining the maximum depth of frost penetration.
A-4.2.5.1.(1) Excavations. Information on excavations can be found in the Commentary entitled Foundations in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
A-4.2.5.8.(2) Backfilling. Certain granular material may swell under chemical reactions. A number of these reactions involve iron sulphide (pyrite, pyrrhotite, etc.) and carbonates present in the material and
lead to the crystallization of sulfates and a subsequent increase in the volume of the granular backfill. The reactions are influenced by a number of factors, including the presence of clay minerals, which facilitate water absorption and the oxidation of iron sulphides, particle size distribution, water content of materials, the presence of bacteria and temperature.
The most prevalent characterization method for granular materials, the petrographic index for potential swelling, may be accepted for the purposes of meeting the requirement. The method is described in detail in the following documents:
4-106
Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
• •
NQ 2560-500, “Granulats – Détermination de l’indice pétrographique du potentiel de gonflement sulfatique des matériaux granulaires – Méthode d’essai pour l’évaluation de l’IPPG,” NQ2560-510,“Granulats–Guided’applicationdelaméthoded’essaipourlacaractérisationdupotentiel de gonflement sulfatique des matériaux granulaires.”
   © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B A-4.4.2.1.(1)
The non-swelling rock accepted under the two standards is commonly called “DB certified rock” (DB for “dalle de béton”).
Other methods, such as the chemically or biologically accelerated swelling test, may determine swelling but are less used because of the time required.
Other granular materials from industrial processes, such as blast furnace slag, may also swell under certain conditions. Verifications are recommended before using granular materials in works sensitive to volumetric changes.
A-4.2.6.1.(1) Shallow Foundations. Information on shallow foundations can be found in the Commentary entitled Foundations in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
A-4.2.7.1.(1) Deep Foundation Units. A deep foundation unit can be pre-manufactured or cast-in-place; it can be driven, jacked, jetted, screwed, bored or excavated; it can be of wood, concrete or steel or a combination thereof.
A-4.2.7.2.(1) Deep Foundations. Information on deep foundations can be found in the Commentary entitled Foundations in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
A-4.2.7.2.(2) Load Testing of Piles. ASTM D 1143/D 1143M, “Deep Foundations Under Static Axial Compressive Load,” defines routine load test procedures that have been extensively used.
A-4.3.3.1.(1) Precast Concrete. CSA A23.3, “Design of Concrete Structures,” requires precast concrete members to conform to CSA A23.4, “Precast Concrete – Materials and Construction.”
A-4.3.4.1.(1) Welded Construction. Qualification for fabricators and erectors of welded construction is found in Clause 24.3 of CSA S16, “Design of Steel Structures.”
A-4.3.4.2.(1) Cold-Formed Stainless Steel Members. There is currently no Canadian standard for the design of cold-formed stainless steel structural members. As an interim measure, design may be carried out using the limit states design provisions of ASCE/SEI 8, “Design of Cold-Formed Stainless Steel Structural Members,” except that load factors, load combinations and load combination factors shall be in accordance with Subsection 4.1.3.
A-4.3.6.1.(1) Design Basis for Glass. The load factors in Tables 4.1.3.2.-A and 4.1.3.2.-B must be applied to the adjusted wind load before designing in accordance with the referenced standard. Additional information is given in the Commentary entitled Wind Load and Effects in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
A-4.4.2.1.(1) Design Basis for Parking Structures and Repair Garages. See the Commentary entitled Live Loads in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 4-107
  © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022
4-108 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1

 Division B
Part 5
Environmental Separation
5.1. General
5.1.1. Scope ................................................ 5-1
5.1.2. Application ........................................ 5-1
5.1.3. Definitions ......................................... 5-1
5.1.4. Resistance to Loads and
Deterioration ..................................... 5-2
5.1.5. Other Requirements ......................... 5-3
5.2. Loads and Procedures
5.2.1. Environmental Loads and
Design Procedures ........................... 5-3
5.2.2. Structural Loads and Design Procedures ........................................ 5-4
5.3. Heat Transfer
5.3.1. Thermal Resistance of
Assemblies ....................................... 5-5
5.4. Air Leakage
5.4.1. Air Barrier Systems .......................... 5-5
5.5. Vapour Diffusion
5.5.1. Vapour Barriers ................................ 5-6
5.6. Precipitation
5.6.1. Protection from Precipitation .......... 5-7
5.6.2. Sealing, Drainage,
Accumulation and Disposal ............ 5-7
5.7. Surface and Ground Water
5.7.1. Site Factors ....................................... 5-8
5.7.2. Protection against Hydrostatic
Pressure ............................................ 5-8
5.7.3. Protection against Ground Water ... 5-9
5.8. Sound Transmission
5.8.1. Protection from Airborne Noise .... 5-10
5.9. Standards
5.9.1. Applicable Standards .................... 5-12
5.9.2. Windows, Doors and Skylights ..... 5-15
5.9.3. Other Fenestration Assemblies .... 5-16
5.9.4. Exterior Insulation Finish
Systems ........................................... 5-17
5.10. Objectives and Functional Statements
5.10.1. Objectives and Functional
Statements ...................................... 5-17
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Notes to Part 5 ................ 5-21
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division B
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
Part 5
Environmental Separation
(See Note A-5.)
Section 5.1. General
5.1.1. Scope 5.1.1.1. Scope
1) This Part is concerned with
a) the control of condensation
i) inbuildingcomponentsandassemblies,and
ii) onbuildingmaterials,componentsandassemblies,and
b) the transfer of heat, air, moisture and sound through
i) buildingmaterials,componentsandassemblies,and
ii) interfaces between building materials, components and assemblies.
(See Note A-5.1.1.1.(1).)
5.1.2. Application
5.1.2.1. Exposure to Exterior Space or the Ground and Separation of Dissimilar Environments
1) This Part applies, as described in Subsection 1.3.3. of Division A, to
a) building materials, components and assemblies exposed to exterior space or the ground, including those separating interior space from exterior space or
separating interior space from the ground,
b) building materials, components and assemblies separating environmentally
dissimilar interior spaces (see Note A-5.8.), and
c) site materials, components, assemblies and grading that may affect
environmental loads on building materials, components and assemblies
exposed to exterior space or the ground.
(See Note A-5.1.2.1.(1).)
5.1.3. Definitions 5.1.3.1. Defined Words
1) Words that appear in italics are defined in Article 1.4.1.2. of Division A.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division B 5-1
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 5.1.4.1.
Division B
5.1.4. 5.1.4.1.
Resistance to Loads and Deterioration Structural and Environmental Loads
(See Note A-5.1.4.1.)
1) Building materials, components and assemblies that separate dissimilar environments or are exposed to the exterior shall have sufficient capacity and integrity to resist or accommodate
a) all environmental loads, and effects of those loads, that may reasonably be expected having regard to
i) the intended use of the building, and
ii) theenvironmenttowhichthematerials,componentsand
assemblies are subject, and
b) all structural loads, and effects of those loads, that may reasonably be
expected.
2) Where building materials, components or assemblies perform more than one function, they shall satisfy the requirements of all of those functions. (See Note A-5.1.4.1.(2).)
3) Compliance with Clause (1)(a) shall be demonstrated by design complying with Subsection 5.2.1. and construction conforming to that design.
4) Compliance with Clause (1)(b) shall be demonstrated by design complying with Subsection 5.2.2., and construction conforming to that design, with regard to
a) materials, components and assemblies, and associated loads, that are identified in Part 4,
b) air pressure loads imposed on air barrier systems,
c) wind up-lift imposed on roofing, and
d) hydrostatic pressure imposed on the means of protection from moisture in the ground.
5) For materials, components, assemblies and loads to which Sentence (4) does not apply, compliance with Clause (1)(b) shall be demonstrated
a) by design complying with Subsection 5.2.2. for individual applicable loads and construction conforming to that design, or
b) in the case of common materials, components and assemblies, and their installation, by proven past performance over a period of several years for individual applicable loads.
(See Note A-5.1.4.1.(5).)
6) Materials, components and assemblies separating dissimilar environments and assemblies exposed to the exterior, including their connections, that are subject to structural loads as defined in Article 5.2.2.1. shall
a) transfer such loads to the building structure without adverse effects on the performance of other materials, components or assemblies,
b) not deflect to a degree that adversely affects the performance of other materials, components or assemblies (see Note A-5.1.4.1.(6)(b) and (c)), and
c) be designed, and constructed according to that design, to accommodate (see Note A-5.1.4.1.(6)(b) and (c))
i) the maximum relative structural movement that may reasonably be expected, and
ii) constructiontolerancesthatmaybereasonablyexpected.
(See Article 4.1.3.5., Sentence 4.1.3.3.(2) and Subsection 4.1.8. for information on different types of structural movements.) (See Note A-5.1.4.1.)
5-2 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
5.2.1.3.
5.1.4.2.
Resistance to Deterioration
(See Note A-5.1.4.2.)
1) Except as provided in Sentence (2), materials used in building components and assemblies that separate dissimilar environments, or in assemblies exposed to the exterior, shall be
a) compatible with adjoining materials, and
b) resistant to any mechanisms of deterioration that may reasonably be
expected, given
i) thenatureandfunctionofthematerials,and
ii) theexposureandclimaticconditionsinwhichtheywillbe installed.
2) Material compatibility and deterioration resistance are not required where it can be shown that incompatibility or uncontrolled deterioration will not adversely affect any of
a) the health or safety of building users,
b) the intended use of the building, or
c) the operation of building services.
Other Requirements
Requirements in Other Parts of the Code
1) Structural and fire safety requirements in other Parts of the NBC shall apply.
5.1.5. 5.1.5.1.
Section 5.2. Loads and Procedures
5.2.1. 5.2.1.1.
Environmental Loads and Design Procedures
Exterior Environmental Loads
1) Above ground climatic loads shall be determined according to Subsection 1.1.3.
2) Except as provided in Sentence (3), below ground exterior environmental loads
not described in Subsection 1.1.3. shall be determined from existing geological and hydrological data or from site tests.
3) Where local design and construction practice has shown soil temperature analysis to be unnecessary, soil temperatures need not be determined. (See Note A-5.2.1.1.(3).)
Interior Environmental Loads
1) Interior environmental loads shall be determined in accordance with good practice as described in Sentence 6.2.1.1.(1) based on the intended use of the space. (See Note A-5.2.1.2.(1).)
Environmental Load and Transfer Calculations
1) Calculations related to the transfer of heat, air and moisture and the transmission of sound shall conform to good practice such as that described in the ASHRAE Handbooks.
2) For the purposes of any analysis conducted to indicate conformance to
the thermal resistance levels required in Article 5.3.1.2., soil temperatures shall be determined based on annual average soil temperature, seasonal amplitude of variation and attenuation of variation with depth.
5.2.1.2.
5.2.1.3.
3) Wind load calculations shall conform to Subsection 4.1.7.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 5-3
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 5.2.2.1.
Division B
5.2.2. 5.2.2.1.
Structural Loads and Design Procedures Determination of Structural Loads and Effects
1) Where materials, components or assemblies that separate dissimilar environments or are exposed to the exterior, or their connections, are required to be designed to withstand structural loads, these loads shall be determined in accordance with Part 4. (See also Subsection 2.2.5. of Division C.)
2) Except as provided in Article 4.1.8.18., the structural loads referred to in Sentence (1) and their related effects shall include
a) dead loads transferred from structural elements,
b) wind, snow, rain, hydrostatic and earth pressures,
c) earthquake effects for post-disaster buildings, depending on their intended function (see Note A-5.2.2.1.(2)(c)),
d) live loads due to use and occupancy, and
e) loads due to thermal or moisture-related expansion and contraction,
deflection, deformation, creep, shrinkage, settlement, and differential movement.
3) Where materials, components or assemblies that separate dissimilar environments or are exposed to the exterior, or their connections, can be expected to be subject to loads or other effects not described in this Subsection or in Part 4, such loads or effects shall be taken into account in the design based on the most current and applicable information available.
Determination of Wind Load
(See Note A-5.2.2.2.)
1) This Article applies to the determination of wind load to be used in the design of materials, components and assemblies, including their connections, that separate dissimilar environments or are exposed to the exterior, where these are
a) subject to wind load, and
b) required to be designed to resist wind load.
2) Except as provided in Sentence (3), the wind load referred to in Sentence (1) shall be 100% of the specified wind load determined in accordance with Article 4.1.7.1.
3) Where it can be shown by test or analysis that a material, component, assembly or connection referred to in Sentence (1) will be subject to less than 100% of the specified wind load, the wind load referred to in Sentence (1) shall be not less than the load determined by test or analysis.
4) Except as provided in Sentence (5), the wind uplift resistance of membrane roofing assemblies shall be determined in accordance with the requirements of CAN/CSA-A123.21, “Dynamic Wind Uplift Resistance of Membrane-Roofing Systems.” (See Note A-5.2.2.2.(4).)
5) Membrane roofing assemblies with proven past performance for the anticipated wind loads need not comply with Sentence (4). (See Note A-5.1.4.1.(5).)
Design Procedures
1) Structural design shall be carried out in accordance with Subsection 4.1.3. and
other applicable requirements in Part 4.
5.2.2.2.
5.2.2.3.
5-4 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 5.4.1.1.
Section 5.3. Heat Transfer
(See Note A-5.3.)
5.3.1. 5.3.1.1.
Thermal Resistance of Assemblies Required Resistance to Heat Transfer
(See Note A-5.3.1.1.)
1) Except as provided in Sentence (2), where a building component or assembly will be subjected to an intended temperature differential, the component or assembly shall include materials to resist heat transfer or a means to dissipate transferred heat in accordance with the remainder of this Subsection.
2) The installation of materials to resist heat transfer in accordance with the remainder of this Subsection is not required where it can be shown that uncontrolled heat transfer will not adversely affect any of
a) the health or safety of building users,
b) the intended use of the building, or
c) the operation of building services.
Properties to Resist Heat Transfer or Dissipate Heat
(See Note A-5.3.1.2.)
1) Taking into account the conditions on either side of the environmental separator, materials and components installed to provide the required resistance to heat transfer or the means implemented to dissipate heat shall provide sufficient resistance or dissipation,
a) to minimize surface condensation on the warm side of the component or assembly,
b) in conjunction with other materials and components in the assembly, to minimize condensation within the component or assembly,
c) in conjunction with systems installed for space conditioning, to meet the interior design thermal conditions for the intended occupancy, and
d) to minimize ice damming on sloped roofs.
(See Note A-5.3.1.2.(1).)
Location and Installation of Materials Providing Thermal Resistance
1) Where a material required by Article 5.3.1.1. is intersected by a building assembly, penetrated by a high conductance component or interrupted by expansion, control or construction joints, and where condensation is likely to occur at these intersections, penetrations or interruptions, sufficient thermal resistance shall be provided so as to minimize condensation at these locations.
2) Materials providing required thermal resistance shall have sufficient inherent resistance to airflow or be positioned in the assembly so as to prevent convective airflow through and around the material. (See Note A-5.3.1.3.(2).)
5.3.1.2.
5.3.1.3.
Section 5.4. Air Leakage
5.4.1. Air Barrier Systems
5.4.1.1. Required Resistance to Air Leakage
(See Note A-5.4.1.1.)
1) Where a building component or assembly separates interior conditioned space from exterior space, interior space from the ground, or environmentally dissimilar interior spaces, the properties and position of the materials and components in those components or assemblies shall be such that they control air leakage or permit venting to the exterior so as to
a) provide acceptable conditions for the building occupants,
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 5-5
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 5.4.1.2.
Division B
5.4.1.2.
b) maintain appropriate conditions for the intended use of the building,
c) minimize the accumulation of condensation in and the penetration of
precipitation into the building component or assembly,
d) control heat transfer to roofs where ice damming can occur,
e) minimize the ingress of airborne radon from the ground with an aim to controlling the indoor radon concentration to an acceptable level, and
f) not compromise the operation of building services.
2) Except as provided in Sentence (3), an air barrier system shall be installed to
provide the principal resistance to air leakage.
3) An air barrier system is not required where it can be shown that uncontrolled air leakage will not adversely affect any of
a) the health or safety of building users,
b) the intended use of the building, or
c) the operation of building services.
Air Barrier System Properties
1) Except as provided in Sentence (2), air barrier materials intended to provide the principal resistance to air leakage shall
a) have an air leakage characteristic not greater than 0.02 L/(s·m2) measured at an air pressure difference of 75 Pa, when tested in accordance to ASTM E 2178, “Air Permeance of Building Materials,” or
b) conform to CAN/ULC-S741, “Air Barrier Materials – Specification.”
(See Note A-5.4.1.2.(1) and (2).)
2) The air leakage limit specified in Sentence (1) is permitted to be increased where it can be shown that the higher rate of leakage will not adversely affect any of
a) the health or safety of the building users,
b) the intended use of the building, or
c) the operation of building services.
(See Note A-5.4.1.2.(1) and (2).)
3) The air barrier system shall be continuous
a) across construction, control and expansion joints,
b) across junctions between different building assemblies, and
c) around penetrations through the building assembly.
4) The structural design of air barrier systems installed in assemblies subject to air pressure loads shall comply with Article 5.1.4.1. and Subsection 5.2.2.
Section 5.5. Vapour Diffusion
5.5.1. 5.5.1.1.
Vapour Barriers
Required Resistance to Vapour Diffusion
(See Note A-5.5.1.1.)
1) Where a building component or assembly is subjected to differentials in temperature and water vapour pressure, the properties and position of the materials and components in those components or assemblies shall be such that they control vapour diffusion or permit venting to the exterior so as to minimize the accumulation of condensation in the building component or assembly.
2) Except as provided in Sentence (3), a vapour barrier shall be installed to provide the principal resistance to water vapour diffusion.
3) A vapour barrier is not required where it can be shown that uncontrolled vapour diffusion will not adversely affect any of
a) the health or safety of building users,
b) the intended use of the building, or
c) the operation of building services.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
5-6 Division B
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 5.6.2.1.
5.5.1.2.
Vapour Barrier Properties and Installation
(See Note A-5.3.1.2.)
1) The vapour barrier shall have sufficiently low permeance and shall be positioned in the building component or assembly so as to
a) minimize moisture transfer by diffusion, to surfaces within the assembly that would be cold enough to cause condensation at the design temperature and humidity conditions, or
b) reduce moisture transfer by diffusion, to surfaces within the assembly that would be cold enough to cause condensation at the design temperature and humidity conditions, to a rate that will not allow sufficient accumulation of moisture to cause deterioration or otherwise adversely affect any of
i) the health or safety of building users, ii) the intended use of the building, or
iii) the operation of building services.
(See Note A-5.5.1.2.(1).)
2) Coatings applied to gypsum board to provide required resistance to vapour diffusion shall conform to the requirements of Sentence (1) when tested in accordance with CAN/CGSB-1.501-M, “Method for Permeance of Coated Wallboard.”
3) Coatings applied to materials other than gypsum board to provide required resistance to vapour diffusion shall conform to the requirements of Sentence (1) when tested in accordance with ASTM E 96/E 96M, “Water Vapor Transmission of Materials,” by the desiccant method (dry cup).
Section 5.6. Precipitation
5.6.1. 5.6.1.1.
Protection from Precipitation Required Protection from Precipitation
(See Note A-5.6.1.1.)
1) Except as provided in Sentence (2), where a building component or assembly is exposed to precipitation, the component or assembly shall
a) minimize ingress of precipitation into the component or assembly, and
b) prevent ingress of precipitation into interior space.
2) Protection from ingress of precipitation is not required where it can be shown that such ingress will not adversely affect any of
a) the health or safety of building users,
b) the intended use of the building, or
c) the operation of building services.
Installation of Protective Materials
1) Where protective materials are applied to assemblies to provide the required protection from precipitation, they shall be installed so as to shed precipitation or otherwise minimize its entry into the assembly and prevent its penetration through the assembly. (See Note A-5.6.1.2.(1).) (See also Clause 5.3.1.2.(1)(d).)
Sealing, Drainage, Accumulation and Disposal Sealing and Drainage
(See Note A-5.6.2.1.)
1) Except as provided in Sentence (2), materials, components, assemblies, joints in materials, junctions between components and junctions between assemblies exposed to precipitation shall be
a) sealed to prevent ingress of precipitation, or
b) drained to direct precipitation to the exterior.
5.6.1.2.
5.6.2. 5.6.2.1.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 5-7
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 5.6.2.2.
Division B
5.6.2.2.
2) Sealing or drainage are not required where it can be shown that the omission of sealing and drainage will not adversely affect any of
a) the health or safety of building users,
b) the intended use of the building, or
c) the operation of building services.
Accumulation and Disposal
1) Where water, snow or ice can accumulate on a building, provision shall be made to minimize the likelihood of hazardous conditions arising from such accumulation.
2) Where precipitation can accumulate on sloped or horizontal assemblies, provision shall be made for drainage conforming with the relevant provincial or territorial regulations or municipal bylaws or, in the absence of such regulations or bylaws, with Article 2.4.10.4. of Division B of the NPC.
3) Where downspouts are provided and are not connected to a sewer, provisions shall be made to
a) divert the water from the building, and
b) prevent soil erosion.
4) Junctions between vertical assemblies, and sloped or horizontal assemblies, shall be designed and constructed to minimize the flow of water from the sloped or horizontal assembly onto the vertical assembly.
Section 5.7. Surface and Ground Water
(See Note A-5.7.)
5.7.1. 5.7.1.1.
5.7.1.2.
Site Factors Application
1) This Subsection applies to the location of buildings, the grading of building sites, the directing of water away from building assemblies, and the provision of means
for drainage.
Required Protection
1) The building shall be located, the building site shall be graded, or water shall be directed away from building assemblies so as to prevent or accommodate the accumulation of surface water against the building or adjacent buildings.
2) Drainage shall be provided to direct water away from assemblies separating interior space from the ground, except
a) where the assembly is designed in accordance with Subsection 5.7.2. to withstand continuous hydrostatic pressure, or
b) where it can be shown that the lack of drainage will not adversely affect i) the health or safety of building users,
ii) the intended use of the building, or iii) the operation of building services.
(See Note A-5.7.1.2.(2).)
Protection against Hydrostatic Pressure Application
1) This Subsection applies to waterproofing materials, components, assemblies and systems applied to building assemblies that separate dissimilar environments and are subjected to hydrostatic pressure.
5.7.2. 5.7.2.1.
5-8 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 5.7.3.4.
5.7.2.2.
5.7.2.3.
5.7.3. 5.7.3.1.
5.7.3.2.
Design of Building Elements Under Hydrostatic Loads
1) Waterproofing materials, components, assemblies and systems described in
Article 5.7.2.1. shall be designed in accordance with Subsection 5.1.4.
2) Hydrostatic design loads shall be determined in accordance with Subsection 5.2.2.
Required Protection
1) Waterproofing materials, components, assemblies and systems described in
Article 5.7.2.1. shall comply with Article 5.7.3.2.
Protection against Ground Water Application
1) This Subsection applies to the protection of building assemblies that separate interior space from the ground.
Required Protection
1) Except as provided in Sentence (2) and Article 5.7.3.4., building assemblies described in Article 5.7.3.1. shall be protected by waterproofing in accordance with Article 5.7.3.3. so as to prevent the ingress of water into the building or the accumulation of water against the building.
2) Waterproofing is not required where it can be shown that
a) a building is designed to accommodate the ingress or accumulation of water,
or
b) the ingress or accumulation of water will not negatively affect
i) the health or safety of building users, ii) the intended use of the building, or
iii) the operation of building services.
Waterproofing
1) Waterproofing materials, components, assemblies, or systems installed to provide the required protection shall form a continuous and impervious barrier to the ingress of water and be capable of accommodating
a) imperfections, construction joints, control joints and expansion joints (see Note A-5.7.3.3.(1)(a)),
b) junctions between different building assemblies, and
c) elements penetrating building assemblies.
Where Dampproofing is Permitted
1) Vertical building assemblies that separate interior space from the ground are permitted to be dampproofed where
a) such assemblies are not subjected to hydrostatic pressure,
b) the substrate is cast-in-place concrete, and
c) a drainage layer is installed between the building assembly and the soil.
(See Note A-5.7.3.4.(1).)
2) Joints, junctions and penetrations shall be designed and constructed to maintain the continuity of the dampproofing.
5.7.3.3.
5.7.3.4.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 5-9
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 5.8.1.1. Division B
Section 5.8. Sound Transmission
(See Note A-5.8.)
5.8.1. 5.8.1.1.
Protection from Airborne Noise Required Protection
1) Except as provided in Sentence (2), a dwelling unit shall be separated from every other space in a building in which noise may be generated by
a) a separating assembly and adjoining constructions, which, together, provide an apparent sound transmission class (ASTC) rating not less than 47, or
b) a separating assembly that provides a sound transmission class (STC) rating of not less than 50 and adjoining constructions that conform to Article 9.11.1.4.
2) Construction separating a dwelling unit from an elevator shaft or a refuse chute shall have an STC rating not less than 55.
Determination of Sound Transmission Ratings
(See Note A-5.8.1.2.)
1) The STC ratings of separating assemblies shall be determined in accordance with ASTM E 413, “Classification for Rating Sound Insulation,” using the results from measurements carried out in accordance with ASTM E 90, “Laboratory Measurement of Airborne Sound Transmission Loss of Building Partitions and Elements.”
2) The ASTC ratings of separating assemblies and adjoining constructions shall be
a) determined in accordance with ASTM E 413, “Classification for Rating
Sound Insulation,” using the results from measurements carried out in accordance with ASTM E 336, “Measurement of Airborne Sound Attenuation between Rooms in Buildings,” or
b) calculated in accordance with
i) thedetailedmethoddescribedinArticle5.8.1.4.,or
ii) the simplified method described in Article 5.8.1.5.
Compliance with Required Ratings
1) Compliance with the required STC ratings shall be demonstrated through
a) measurements carried out in accordance with Sentence 5.8.1.2.(1), or
b) the construction of separating assemblies conforming to those presented in
Table 9.10.3.1.-A or 9.10.3.1.-B, as applicable.
2) Compliance with the required ASTC ratings shall be demonstrated through
a) measurements or calculations carried out in accordance with
Sentence 5.8.1.2.(2), or
b) the construction of separating assemblies conforming to those presented
in Table 9.10.3.1.-A or 9.10.3.1.-B, as applicable, that have an STC rating of not less than 50 in conjunction with flanking assemblies constructed in accordance with Article 9.11.1.4.
Detailed Method for Calculating ASTC
(See Note A-5.8.1.4.)
1) The sound transmission loss measured in accordance with ASTM E 90, “Laboratory Measurement of Airborne Sound Transmission Loss of Building Partitions and Elements,” shall be used in lieu of the sound reduction index required in ISO 15712-1, “Building Acoustics - Estimation of Acoustic Performance of Buildings From the Performance of Elements - Part 1: Airborne Sound Insulation Between Rooms.”
2) The vibration reduction index for the junctions between separating assemblies shall be
a) determined using the equations presented in Annex E of ISO 15712-1, “Building Acoustics - Estimation of Acoustic Performance of Buildings
5.8.1.2.
5.8.1.3.
5.8.1.4.
5-10 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
5.8.1.5.
5.8.1.5.
b)
From the Performance of Elements - Part 1: Airborne Sound Insulation Between Rooms,” or
measured in accordance with Parts 1 to 4 of ISO 10848, “Acoustics - Laboratory Measurement of the Flanking Transmission of Airborne and Impact Sound Between Adjoining Rooms.”
The normalized flanking level difference shall be measured in accordance with Parts 1 to 4 of ISO 10848, “Acoustics - Laboratory Measurement of the Flanking Transmission of Airborne and Impact Sound Between Adjoining Rooms.”
4) The direct sound reduction index for the separating assembly in situ shall be determined using Clause (a) or (b), depending on the type of construction:
a) for a lightweight separating wall or floor assembly with wood or steel framing, the index shall be taken as equal to the sound transmission loss, without correction;
b) for a heavyweight separating wall or floor assembly of concrete or masonry, the index shall be determined in accordance with the detailed method for structure-borne transmission presented in ISO 15712-1, “Building Acoustics - Estimation of Acoustic Performance of Buildings From the Performance of Elements - Part 1: Airborne Sound Insulation Between Rooms.”
5) The flanking sound reduction index for each flanking path at each edge of the separating assembly shall be determined using Clause (a), (b) or (c), depending on the type of construction:
a) for a lightweight separating wall or floor assembly with wood or steel framing and connected lightweight flanking assemblies with wood or steel framing, the index shall be taken as equal to the normalized flanking level difference re-normalized for the ASTC field situation in accordance with Annex F of ISO 15712-1, “Building Acoustics - Estimation of Acoustic Performance of Buildings From the Performance of Elements - Part 1: Airborne Sound Insulation Between Rooms”;
b) for a heavyweight separating wall or floor assembly of concrete or masonry and connected flanking assemblies of concrete or masonry, the index shall be determined in accordance with the detailed method for structure-borne transmission presented in ISO 15712-1, “Building Acoustics - Estimation of Acoustic Performance of Buildings From the Performance of Elements - Part 1: Airborne Sound Insulation Between Rooms”;
c) for a mixture of lightweight framed assemblies and heavyweight concrete or masonry assemblies, the index shall be determined in accordance with Clause (a) or (b).
6) Once the pertinent indices and measurements referred to in Sentences (1) to (5) have been determined based on the type of construction, the apparent sound reduction index shall then be determined in accordance with ISO 15712-1, “Building Acoustics - Estimation of Acoustic Performance of Buildings From the Performance of Elements
- Part 1: Airborne Sound Insulation Between Rooms.”
7) The ASTC shall be calculated in accordance with ASTM E 413, “Classification for Rating Sound Insulation,” using the apparent sound reduction index determined in Sentence (6), which shall be treated as equivalent to the values of apparent sound transmission loss measured in accordance with ASTM E 336, “Measurement of Airborne Sound Attenuation between Rooms in Buildings.”
Simplified Method for Calculating ASTC
(See Note A-5.8.1.4.)
1) The STC rating shall be used in lieu of the weighted sound reduction index required in ISO 15712-1, “Building Acoustics - Estimation of Acoustic Performance of Buildings From the Performance of Elements - Part 1: Airborne Sound Insulation Between Rooms.”
2) The vibration reduction index for the junctions between separating assemblies shall be
a) determined using the equations presented in Annex E of ISO 15712-1, “Building Acoustics - Estimation of Acoustic Performance of Buildings
3)
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 5-11
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 5.9.1.1.
Division B
5.9.1. 5.9.1.1.
Applicable Standards
Compliance with Applicable Standards
1) Except as provided in Sentence (2) and elsewhere in this Part, materials and components, and their installation, shall conform to the requirements of the applicable standards in Table 5.9.1.1. where those materials or components are
a) incorporated into environmental separators or assemblies exposed to the exterior, and
b) installed to fulfill the requirements of this Part.
(See Note A-5.9.1.1.(1).)
2) The requirements for flame-spread ratings contained in thermal insulation standards shall be applied only as required in Part 3.
Table 5.9.1.1.
Standards Applicable to Environmental Separators and Assemblies Exposed to the Exterior Forming Part of Sentence 5.9.1.1.(1)
Issuing Agency
ASME ASTM
Document Number
B18.6.1
A 123/A 123M
Title of Document
Wood Screws (Inch Series)
Zinc (Hot-Dip Galvanized) Coatings on Iron and Steel Products
5-12 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
b)
From the Performance of Elements - Part 1: Airborne Sound Insulation Between Rooms,” or
measured in accordance with Parts 1 to 4 of ISO 10848, “Acoustics - Laboratory Measurement of the Flanking Transmission of Airborne and Impact Sound Between Adjoining Rooms.”
The weighted normalized flanking level difference shall be determined in accordance with ASTM E 413, “Classification for Rating Sound Insulation,” using the results from measurements carried out in accordance with Parts 1 to 4 of ISO 10848, “Acoustics - Laboratory Measurement of the Flanking Transmission of Airborne and Impact Sound Between Adjoining Rooms.”
4) The direct weighted sound reduction index for the separating assembly shall be taken as equal to the STC, without correction.
5) The weighted flanking sound reduction index for each flanking path at each edge of the separating assembly shall be determined using Clause (a) or (b), depending on the type of construction:
a) for a lightweight separating wall or floor assembly with wood or steel framing and connected lightweight flanking assemblies with wood or steel framing, the index shall be taken as equal to the weighted normalized flanking level difference re-normalized for the ASTC field situation in accordance with Annex F of ISO 15712-1, “Building Acoustics - Estimation of Acoustic Performance of Buildings From the Performance of Elements - Part 1: Airborne Sound Insulation Between Rooms”;
b) for a heavyweight separating wall or floor assembly of concrete or masonry and connected flanking assemblies of concrete or masonry, the index shall be determined in accordance with the simplified method for structure-borne transmission presented in ISO 15712-1, “Building Acoustics - Estimation of Acoustic Performance of Buildings From the Performance of Elements - Part 1: Airborne Sound Insulation Between Rooms.”
6) Once the pertinent indices and measurements referred to in Sentences (1) to (5) have been determined based on the type of construction, the ASTC shall then be calculated in accordance with ISO 15712-1, “Building Acoustics - Estimation
of Acoustic Performance of Buildings From the Performance of Elements - Part 1: Airborne Sound Insulation Between Rooms.”
Section 5.9. Standards
3)
     © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
5.9.1.1.
Issuing Agency
ASTM ASTM
ASTM ASTM ASTM ASTM ASTM ASTM ASTM ASTM ASTM ASTM ASTM ASTM ASTM ASTM ASTM
ASTM ASTM ASTM ASTM ASTM ASTM ASTM ASTM ASTM ASTM
ASTM ASTM ASTM ASTM ASTM BNQ CGSB CGSB CGSB CGSB CGSB CGSB CGSB CGSB
Document Number
153M 653M
Title of Document
A 153/A A 653/A
C4 C73
C 126 C 212 C 412M C 444M C 553 C 612 C 700 C 726 C 834(1) C 840 C 920(1) C 991 C 1002
C 1177/C C 1178/C C 1184(1) C 1311(1) C 1330(1) C 1396/C C 1658/C D 1227 D 2178/D D 3019(4)
1177M 1178M
1396M(2) 1658M(3)
2178M
Zinc Coating (Hot-Dip) on Iron and Steel Hardware
Steel Sheet, Zinc-Coated (Galvanized) or Zinc-Iron Alloy-Coated (Galvannealed) by the Hot-Dip Process
Clay Drain Tile and Perforated Clay Drain Tile
Calcium Silicate Brick (Sand-Lime Brick)
Ceramic Glazed Structural Clay Facing Tile, Facing Brick, and Solid Masonry Units
Structural Clay Facing Tile
Concrete Drain Tile (Metric)
Perforated Concrete Pipe (Metric)
Mineral Fiber Blanket Thermal Insulation for Commercial and Industrial Applications
Mineral Fiber Block and Board Thermal Insulation
Vitrified Clay Pipe, Extra Strength, Standard Strength, and Perforated
Mineral Wool Roof Insulation Board
Latex Sealants
Application and Finishing of Gypsum Board
Elastomeric Joint Sealants
Flexible Fibrous Glass Insulation for Metal Buildings
Steel Self-Piercing Tapping Screws for the Application of Gypsum Panel Products or Metal Plaster Bases to Wood Studs or Steel Studs
Glass Mat Gypsum Substrate for Use as Sheathing
Coated Glass Mat Water-Resistant Gypsum Backing Panel
Structural Silicone Sealants
Solvent Release Sealants
Cylindrical Sealant Backing for Use with Cold Liquid-Applied Sealants
Gypsum Board
Glass Mat Gypsum Panels
Emulsified Asphalt Used as a Protective Coating for Roofing
Asphalt Glass Felt Used in Roofing and Waterproofing
Lap Cement Used with Asphalt Roll Roofing, Non-Fibered, Asbestos-Fibered, and Non-Asbestos-Fibered
Asphalt Roof Coatings – Asbestos-Free
EPDM Sheet Used In Single-Ply Roof Membrane
Nonvulcanized (Uncured) Rubber Sheet Used as Roof Flashing Thermoplastic Polyolefin Based Sheet Roofing
Insulating Glass Unit Performance and Evaluation
Polyethylene (PE) Pipe and Fittings for Soil and Foundation Drainage Hardboard
Hardboard, Precoated, Factory Finished, for Exterior Cladding Tempered or Laminated Safety Glass
Flat, Clear Sheet Glass
Flat, Clear Float Glass
Heat Absorbing Glass
Insulating Glass Units
Glass, Light and Heat Reflecting
4479M 4637M 4811M 6878M
D 4479/D
D 4637/D
D 4811/D
D 6878/D
E 2190
BNQ 3624-115 CAN/CGSB-11.3-M CAN/CGSB-11.5-M CAN/CGSB-12.1-M CAN/CGSB-12.2-M CAN/CGSB-12.3-M CAN/CGSB-12.4-M CAN/CGSB-12.8 CAN/CGSB-12.10-M
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division B 5-13
Table 5.9.1.1. (Continued)
     © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 5.9.1.1.
Division B
Issuing Agency
CGSB CGSB CGSB CGSB CGSB CGSB
CGSB CGSB CGSB CGSB CGSB CGSB CGSB CGSB
CSA CSA CSA CSA
CSA CSA CSA CSA CSA CSA CSA CSA CSA CSA CSA CSA CSA CSA CSA CSA CSA CSA CSA CSA CSA CSA CSA
Document Number
CAN/CGSB-12.11-M 37-GP-9Ma CAN/CGSB-37.50-M CAN/CGSB-37.54 37-GP-56M CAN/CGSB-37.58-M
CAN/CGSB-41.24 CAN/CGSB-51.32-M CAN/CGSB-51.33-M CAN/CGSB-51.34-M CAN/CGSB-93.1-M CAN/CGSB-93.2-M CAN/CGSB-93.3-M CAN/CGSB-93.4
A23.1 CAN/CSA-A82 CAN3-A93-M A123.1/A123.5
CAN/CSA-A123.2 A123.3 CAN/CSA-A123.4 A123.17 CAN3-A123.51-M CAN3-A123.52-M A165.1
A165.2
A165.3
A179
CAN/CSA-A220 Series A371
A3001 CAN/CSA-B182.1 G40.21
G401
CAN/CSA-O80 Series O118.1
O118.2
O121
O141
O151
O153
Table 5.9.1.1. (Continued)
Wired Safety Glass
Title of Document
5-14 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Primer, Asphalt, Unfilled, for Asphalt Roofing, Dampproofing and Waterproofing
Hot-Applied, Rubberized Asphalt for Roofing and Waterproofing
Polyvinyl Chloride Roofing and Waterproofing Membrane
Membrane, Modified, Bituminous, Prefabricated, and Reinforced for Roofing
Membrane, Elastomeric, Cold-Applied Liquid, for Non-Exposed Use in Roofing and Waterproofing
Rigid Vinyl Siding, Soffits and Fascia
Sheathing, Membrane, Breather Type
Vapour Barrier Sheet, Excluding Polyethylene, for Use in Building Construction
Vapour Barrier, Polyethylene Sheet for Use in Building Construction
Sheet, Aluminum Alloy, Prefinished, Residential
Prefinished Aluminum Siding, Soffits, and Fascia, for Residential Use
Prefinished Galvanized and Aluminum-Zinc Alloy Steel Sheet for Residential Use
Galvanized Steel and Aluminum-Zinc Alloy Coated Steel Siding, Soffits and Fascia, Prefinished, Residential
Concrete Materials and Methods of Concrete Construction
Fired Masonry Brick Made from Clay or Shale
Natural Airflow Ventilators for Buildings
Asphalt Shingles Made From Organic Felt and Surfaced with Mineral Granules/Asphalt Shingles Made From Glass Felt and Surfaced with Mineral Granules
Asphalt-Coated Roofing Sheets
Asphalt Saturated Organic Roofing Felt
Asphalt for Constructing Built-Up Roof Coverings and Waterproofing Systems Asphalt Glass Felt Used in Roofing and Waterproofing
Asphalt Shingle Application on Roof Slopes 1:3 and Steeper
Asphalt Shingle Application on Roof Slopes 1:6 to Less Than 1:3
Concrete Block Masonry Units
Concrete Brick Masonry Units
Prefaced Concrete Masonry Units
Mortar and Grout for Unit Masonry
Concrete Roof Tiles
Masonry Construction for Buildings
Cementitious Materials for Use in Concrete
Plastic Drain and Sewer Pipe and Pipe Fittings
Structural Quality Steel
Corrugated Steel Pipe Products
Wood Preservation
Western Red Cedar Shakes and Shingles
Eastern White Cedar Shingles
Douglas Fir Plywood
Softwood Lumber
Canadian Softwood Plywood
Poplar Plywood
    © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
5.9.2.2.
Issuing Agency
CSA CSA HPVA ULC ULC ULC ULC ULC
ULC
ULC ULC
ULC
Document Number
O325
O437.0 ANSI/HPVA HP-1 CAN/ULC-S701.1 CAN/ULC-S702 CAN/ULC-S703 CAN/ULC-S704 CAN/ULC-S705.1
CAN/ULC-S705.2
CAN/ULC-S706.1 CAN/ULC-S710.1
CAN/ULC-S711.1
Table 5.9.1.1. (Continued)
Construction Sheathing
OSB and Waferboard
Title of Document
Notes to Table 5.9.1.1.:
Hardwood and Decorative Plywood
Thermal Insulation, Polystyrene Boards
Mineral Fibre Thermal Insulation for Buildings
Cellulose Fibre Insulation for Buildings
Thermal Insulation, Polyurethane and Polyisocyanurate, Boards, Faced
Thermal Insulation – Spray Applied Rigid Polyurethane Foam, Medium Density – Material Specification
Thermal Insulation – Spray Applied Rigid Polyurethane Foam, Medium Density – Application
Wood Fibre Insulating Boards for Buildings
Thermal Insulation – Bead-Applied One Component Polyurethane Air Sealant Foam, Part 1: Material Specification
Thermal Insulation – Bead-Applied Two Component Polyurethane Air Sealant Foam, Part 1: Material Specification
(1) See Note A-Table 5.9.1.1.
(2) The flame-spread rating of gypsum board shall be determined in accordance with CAN/ULC-S102 in lieu of ASTM E 84 as indicated in ASTM C
1396/C 1396M.
(3) The flame-spread rating of glass mat gypsum panels shall be determined in accordance with CAN/ULC-S102 in lieu of ASTM E 84 as indicated in
ASTM C 1658/C 1658M.
(4) For the purpose of compliance with Part 5, ASTM D 3019 shall only apply to the non-fibered and non-asbestos-fibered types of asphalt roll roofing.
5.9.2. 5.9.2.1.
Windows, Doors and Skylights General
1) This Subsection applies to windows, doors and skylights, including their components, that separate
a) interior space from exterior space, or
b) environmentally dissimilar interior spaces.
2) For the purpose of this Subsection, the term “skylight” refers to unit skylights, roof windows and tubular daylighting devices.
3) Where a wired glass assembly is installed in a required fire separation, it need not conform to the requirements of this Subsection. (See Note A-5.9.2.1.(3).)
Applicable Standards
(See Note A-5.9.2.2.)
1) Windows, doors and skylights shall conform to the requirements in
a) AAMA/WDMA/CSA 101/I.S.2/A440, “NAFS – North American Fenestration
Standard/Specification for Windows, Doors, and Skylights,” and
b) CSA A440S1, “Canadian Supplement to AAMA/WDMA/CSA
101/I.S.2/A440-17, NAFS – North American Fenestration Standard/Specifica- tion for Windows, Doors, and Skylights.”
2) Performance grades for windows, doors and skylights shall be selected according to the Canadian Supplement referenced in Clause (1)(b) so as to be appropriate for the conditions and geographic location in which the window, door or skylight will be installed.
5.9.2.2.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 5-15
     © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 5.9.2.3.
Division B
5.9.2.3.
5.9.2.4.
3) Windows, doors and skylights shall conform to the performance grades selected in Sentence (2) when tested in accordance with the Harmonized Standard referenced in Clause (1)(a).
Structural and Environmental Loads, Air Leakage and Water Penetration
1) Windows, doors, skylights and their components shall be designed and constructed in accordance with
a) Article 5.1.4.1., Section 5.4. and Section 5.6., or
b) Article 5.9.2.2., where they are covered in the scope of the standards listed
in Sentence 5.9.2.2.(1).
(See Note A-5.9.2.3.(1).)
Heat Transfer
1) Windows, doors and skylights shall meet the heat transfer performance
requirements stated in Section 5.3. (See Note A-5.3.1.2.)
2) Except as provided in Sentence (3), all metal-framed glazed assemblies separating interior conditioned space from interior unconditioned space or exterior space shall incorporate a thermal break to minimize condensation.
3) Metal-framed glazed assemblies need not comply with Sentence (2) where these assemblies are
a) storm windows or doors, or
b) windows or doors that are required to have a fire-protection rating.
(See Note A-5.9.2.4.(3).)
Other Fenestration Assemblies
(See Note A-5.9.3.)
General
1) For the purpose of this Subsection, the term “other fenestration assemblies” refers to curtain walls, window walls, storefronts and glazed architectural structures. (See Note A-5.9.3.1.(1).)
Structural and Environmental Loads
1) Other fenestration assemblies and their components shall be designed and
constructed in accordance with Article 5.1.4.1. (See Note A-5.9.3.2.(1).)
Heat Transfer
1) Other fenestration assemblies and their components shall meet the heat transfer
performance requirements stated in Section 5.3. (See Note A-5.9.3.3.(1).)
2) Other fenestration assemblies using metal framing that separate interior conditioned space from interior unconditioned space or exterior space shall incorporate a thermal break to minimize condensation.
Air Leakage
1) Other fenestration assemblies and their components shall be designed and
constructed in accordance with Section 5.4.
2) Except as provided in Sentence (3), other fenestration assemblies and their components shall have an air leakage characteristic, measured at an air pressure difference of 75 Pa, when tested in accordance with ASTM E 283, “Determining Rate of Air Leakage Through Exterior Windows, Curtain Walls, and Doors Under Specified Pressure Differences Across the Specimen,” that is not greater than
a) 0.2 L/(s·m2) for fixed portions, including any opaque portions, and
b) 1.5 L/(s·m2) for operable portions.
(See Note A-5.9.3.4.(2).)
5.9.3. 5.9.3.1.
5.9.3.2.
5.9.3.3.
5.9.3.4.
5-16 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
5.10.1.1.
5.9.3.5.
(See Note A-5.9.3.4.(3).)
Water Penetration
1) Other fenestration assemblies and their components shall be designed and
constructed in accordance with Section 5.6.
2) Except as provided in Sentence (4), other fenestration assemblies and their components not covered in Article 5.9.2.2. shall resist water penetration when tested in accordance with
a) ASTM E 331, “Water Penetration of Exterior Windows, Skylights, Doors, and Curtain Walls by Uniform Static Air Pressure Difference,” or
b) ASTM E 547, “Water Penetration of Exterior Windows, Skylights, Doors, and Curtain Walls by Cyclic Static Air Pressure Difference.”
(See Note A-5.9.3.5.(2).)
3) Tests referred to in Sentence (2) shall be carried out at the driving rain wind pressure as calculated in accordance with CSA A440S1, “Canadian Supplement
to AAMA/WDMA/CSA 101/I.S.2/A440-17, NAFS – North American Fenestration Standard/Specification for Windows, Doors, and Skylights.” (See Note A-5.9.3.5.(3).)
4) The following systems need not comply with Sentence (2):
a) interior windows and interior doors,
b) vehicular access doors (garage doors),
c) storm windows and storm doors,
d) commercial entrance systems,
e) revolving doors,
f) smoke and relief air vents,
g) site-built door systems, and
h) commercial steel doors.
(See Note A-5.9.3.5.(4).)
Exterior Insulation Finish Systems
Structural Loads, Heat Transfer, Air Leakage, Vapour Diffusion and Water Penetration
5.9.4. 5.9.4.1.
3)
a)
b) c) d) e) f) g) h)
The following systems need not comply with Sentence (2):
interior windows and interior doors that do not serve as environmental separators,
vehicular access doors (garage doors),
storm windows and storm doors,
commercial entrance systems,
revolving doors,
smoke and relief air vents,
site-built door systems, and
commercial steel doors.
1)
a) b)
Exterior insulation finish systems and their components shall comply with Subsection 5.1.4. and Sections 5.3. to 5.6., and
CAN/ULC-S716.1, “Exterior Insulation and Finish Systems (EIFS) - Materials
and Systems,” where covered in the scope of that standard. (See Note A-5.9.4.1.(1).)
Section 5.10. Objectives and Functional Statements
5.10.1. Objectives and Functional Statements 5.10.1.1. Attributions to Acceptable Solutions
1) For the purpose of compliance with this Code as required in
Clause 1.2.1.1.(1)(b) of Division A, the objectives and functional statements attributed
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 5-17
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 5.10.1.1. Division B
to the acceptable solutions in this Part shall be the objectives and functional statements listed in Table 5.10.1.1. (See Note A-1.1.2.1.(1).)
Table 5.10.1.1.
Objectives and Functional Statements Attributed to the Acceptable Solutions in Part 5
Forming Part of Sentence 5.10.1.1.(1)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
5.1.4.1. Structural and Environmental Loads
(1) (a) [F55,F61,F63-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F20-OS3.1] Applies to snow fences and sloped glazing.
[F61-OH4]
(a) [F60,F61,F63-OS2.2,OS2.3]
(a) [F20,F51,F55-OS1.4] Applies where required life safety systems are incorporated in environmental separators.
(b) [F20-OS2.1] [F21,F22-OS2.3,OS2.4] (b) [F20,F21,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] (b) [F20-OH4]
(4) [F20-OS2.1] [F21,F22-OS2.3,OS2.4] [F20,F21,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
(5) (a) [F20-OS2.1] [F21,F22-OS2.3,OS2.4] (a) [F20,F21,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] (b) [F20-OS2.1] [F21,F22-OS2.3,OS2.4] (b) [F20,F21,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
(6) [F20,F21,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
(a) [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3]
(b) and (c) [F21,F22-OS2.3]
(b) and (c) [F22-OH4]
5.1.4.2. Resistance to Deterioration
(1) [F80,F81-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F80,F81-OS3.1] Applies to floor assemblies.
[F80,F81-OH4] Applies to floor assemblies.
[F80,F81-OS2.3]
[F80,F81-OS1.4] Applies where required life safety systems are incorporated in environmental separators.
5.2.1.1. Exterior Environmental Loads
(2) [F40,F20-OH1.1] [F20-OH1.2,OH1.3] [F20-OS2.1]
5.2.1.2. Interior Environmental Loads
(1) [F51,F55,F61,F63-OH1.1,OH1.2] [F55,F61,F63-OS2.3]
[F51,F61,F63,F55-OS1.4] Applies where required life safety systems are incorporated in environmental separators.
Table 5.10.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
5.2.1.3. Environmental Load and Transfer Calculations
(1) [F56-OH3.1] Applies to sound transmission calculations.
[F61,F51,F63,F55-OH1.1,OH1.2] [F51,F61-OH1.3] Applies to heat, air and moisture transfer calculations.
[F61,F51,F63-OS2.3] Applies to heat, air and moisture transfer calculations.
(3) [F61,F63,F55-OH1.1,OH1.2] [F61,F55-OH1.3]
[F20-OS1.4] Applies where required life safety systems are incorporated in environmental separators.
[F20-OS2.1]
5.2.2.1. Determination of Structural Loads and Effects
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F21,F22-OS2.3,OS2.4] [F20,F21,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F20,F21,F22-OH4]
(3) [F20-OS2.1] [F21,F22-OS2.3,OS2.4] [F20,F21,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F20,F21,F22-OH4]
5.2.2.2. Determination of Wind Load
(2) [F20-OS2.1] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.4] [F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F20,F22-OH4]
(3) [F20-OS2.1] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.4] [F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F20,F22-OH4]
(4) [F20,F55,F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F20,F55,F61-OS2.1,OS2.3]
5.2.2.3. Design Procedures
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.4] [F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F20,F22-OH4]
5.3.1.1. Required Resistance to Heat Transfer
(1) [F63-OH1.1] [F51,F63-OH1.2] [F63-OS2.3]
[F51,F63-OS1.4] Applies where required life safety systems are incorporated in environmental separators.
5.3.1.2. Properties to Resist Heat Transfer or Dissipate Heat
(1) (a),(b) [F51,F63-OH1.1] (c) [F51-OH1.2]
(b) and (d) [F51,F63-OS2.3]
(b) [F51,F63-OS1.4] Applies where required life safety systems are incorporated in environmental separators.
(d) [F30-OS3.1]
5-18 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
                                                                       © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
5.10.1.1.
Table 5.10.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
5.3.1.3. Location and Installation of Materials Providing Thermal Resistance
(1) [F51,F63-OH1.1] [F63-OS2.3]
(2) [F51,F63-OH1.1,OH1.2] [F63-OS2.3]
[F51,F63-OS1.4] Applies where required life safety systems are incorporated in environmental separators.
5.4.1.1. Required Resistance to Air Leakage
(1) (a),(b),(f) [F51,F52,F54,F55-OH1.2] (a),(b),(c),(e) [F40,F55-OH1.1]
(c) [F55,F61,F63-OH1.3]
(c) and (d) [F61,F62,F63,F55-OS2.3] (d) [F55,F62-OS3.1]
(f) [F55,F62-OS1.4] Applies where required life safety systems are incorporated in environmental separators.
(2) [F40-OH1.1] [F52,F54-OH1.2] [F51,F55,F61,F63-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61,F63-OS2.3]
[F51,F55-OS1.4] Applies where required life safety systems are incorporated in environmental separators.
5.4.1.2. Air Barrier System Properties
(1) [F55-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F55-OS2.3]
[F55-OS1.4] Applies where required life safety systems are incorporated in environmental separators.
(3) [F61,F51,F63,F55-OH1.1,OH1.2] [F55,F61-OH1.3] [F61,F63-OS2.3]
[F61,F51,F63-OS1.4] Applies where required life safety systems are incorporated in environmental separators.
5.5.1.1. Required Resistance to Vapour Diffusion
(1) [F63-OH1.1,OH1.2] [F63-OS2.3]
(2) [F63-OH1.1,OH1.2] [F63-OS2.3]
5.5.1.2. Vapour Barrier Properties and Installation
(1) [F63-OH1.1,OH1.2] [F63-OS2.3]
(2) [F63-OH1.1,OH1.2] [F63-OS2.3]
(3) [F63-OH1.1,OH1.2] [F63-OS2.3]
5.6.1.1. Required Protection from Precipitation
(1) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
Table 5.10.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
5.6.1.2. Installation of Protective Materials
(1) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
5.6.2.1. Sealing and Drainage
(1) [F61,F62-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61,F62-OS2.3]
5.6.2.2. Accumulation and Disposal
(1) [F30-OS3.1]
(2) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F61-OS2.3]
(3) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F60-OS2.3] [F21-OS2.2]
(b) [F21-OP2.6]
(4) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F61-OS2.3]
5.7.1.2. Required Protection
(1) [F60-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F60-OS2.3]
(2) [F60-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F60-OS2.2,OS2.3]
5.7.3.2. Required Protection
(1) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
5.7.3.3. Waterproofing
(1) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
5.7.3.4. Where Dampproofing is Permitted
(1) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
(2) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
5.8.1.1. Required Protection
(1) [F56-OH3.1]
(2) [F56-OH3.1]
5.8.1.2. Determination of Sound Transmission Ratings
(1) [F56-OH3.1]
(2) [F56-OH3.1]
5.8.1.4. Detailed Method for Calculating ASTC
(1) [F56-OH3.1]
(2) [F56-OH3.1]
(3) [F56-OH3.1]
(4) [F56-OH3.1]
(5) [F56-OH3.1]
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division B 5-19
                                                                                   © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 5.10.1.1.
Division B
Table 5.10.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
(6) [F56-OH3.1]
(7) [F56-OH3.1]
5.8.1.5. Simplified Method for Calculating ASTC
(1) [F56-OH3.1]
(2) [F56-OH3.1]
(3) [F56-OH3.1]
(4) [F56-OH3.1]
(5) [F56-OH3.1]
(6) [F56-OH3.1]
5.9.1.1. Compliance with Applicable Standards
(1) [F20,F22,F51,F54,F55,F61,F63,F80-OH1.1,OH1.2] [F41,F55-OH1.1] [F55,F61,F80-OH1.3]
[F20,F80-OS2.1] [F20,F22,F51,F61,F63,F80-OS2.3] [F51-OS2.5]
[F80,F61,F63-OS3.1]
[F80,F61,F63-OH4] Applies to floor assemblies.
(a) [F61,F63-OS1.4] Applies where required life safety systems are incorporated in environmental separators.
[F20,F80-OP2.1,OP2.3] [F22,F80-OP2.4]
[F42-OH2.5]
5.9.2.2. Applicable Standards
(1) [F20,F55,F61,F63-OH1.1,OH1.3] [F20,F55,F61,F63,F81-OH1.2] [F20,F55,F61-OS2.3]
[F20,F55,F61-OP2.3]
5.9.2.4. Heat Transfer
(2) [F63-OH1.1,OH1.2] [F63-OS2.3]
5.9.3.3. Heat Transfer
(2) [F63-OH1.1,OH1.2] [F63-OS2.3]
5.9.3.4. Air Leakage
(2) [F55,F63-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F55,F63-OS2.3]
[F55-OS1.4] Applies where required life safety systems are incorporated in environmental separators.
5.9.3.5. Water Penetration
(2) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
5.9.4.1. Structural Loads, Heat Transfer, Air Leakage, Vapour Diffusion and Water Penetration
(1) (b) [F61,F62-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] (b) [F61,F62-OS2.3]
Notes to Table 5.10.1.1.:
(1) See Parts 2 and 3 of Division A.
5-20 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
                                       © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
Notes to Part 5 Environmental Separation
A-5 Environmental Separation. The requirements provided in Part 5 pertain to the separation
of environmentally dissimilar spaces. Most obvious is the need to separate indoor conditioned spaces from unconditioned spaces, the outdoors or the ground. There are also cases where separation is needed between interior spaces which are intended to provide different environments. (See also Notes A-5.1.1.1.(1) and A-5.1.2.1.(1).)
A-5.1.1.1.(1) Scope. Part 5 provides explicit requirements related to the transfer of heat, air, moisture and sound in various forms. Control of the ingress of radon and other soil gases is addressed by the requirements related to air leakage.
A-5.1.2.1.(1) Application. Subsection 1.3.3. of Division A specifies that Part 5 applies to all buildings except those within the scope of Part 9 or the scope of the National Farm Building Code of Canada 1995. Because of their intended use, many buildings need only provide a limited degree of separation from the outdoor environment, the ground, or between interior spaces. The provisions in Part 5 are written to allow exemptions for these buildings.
Part 5 applies to building elements that separate dissimilar environments and to site conditions that may affect environmental loading on the building envelope.
The provisions address
• thedesignandconstruction,orselection,ofbuildingcomponents,suchaswindowsanddoors,
• thedesignandconstructionofbuildingassemblies,suchaswalls,floorsandroofs,
• thedesignandconstructionoftheinterfacesbetweentheabove-mentionedelements,and
• thedesignorselection,andinstallation,ofsitematerials,componentsandassemblies,suchasbackfill
and drainage, and grading.
Part 5 applies not only to building elements that separate indoor space from outdoor space, but also to those elements that separate indoor space from the ground and that separate adjacent indoor spaces having significantly different environments.
Indoor spaces that require separation include interior conditioned spaces adjacent to indoor unconditioned spaces, and adjacent interior conditioned spaces that are intended to provide different environments. An extreme example of the last would be a wall that separates an indoor ice rink from a swimming pool.
Some building elements are exposed to exterior environmental loads but do not separate dissimilar environments. Solid guards on exterior walkways are one example. Such constructions are subject to the application of Part 5.
These Notes are included for explanatory purposes only and do not form part of the requirements. The number that introduces each Note corresponds to the applicable requirement in this Part.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 5-21
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-5.1.4.1. Division B
A-5.1.4.1. Application of Structural Design to Other Building Elements. Part 4, as currently written, applies primarily to buildings as a whole and to structural members. Requirements defining structural loads and design to accommodate or resist those loads, however, apply not only to buildings as a whole and components that are traditionally recognized as structural members, but also apply to other elements of the building that are subject to structural loading. This is addressed to some extent in Part 4 by the requirements that pertain, for example, to wind loads on cladding. A range of structural loads and effects, as defined in Subsection 4.1.2., may be imposed on non-loadbearing elements such as backing walls, roofing, interior partitions and their connections. These must generally be addressed using the same load determination and structural design procedures as used for structural members.
Responsibility for the structural design of buildings as a whole and their structural members is commonly assigned to the engineer of record. The application of Part 4 reflects this, and as such, “non-structural” elements are not explicitly identified in the Part 4 provisions. Rather the application of Part 4 to these elements is specified in cross-references from other Parts of the Code, e.g. Part 5, which recognizes the fact that the structural design of these elements is often carried out by engineers other than the engineer of record.
Part 4 does not generally apply to the structural design of building services, such as heating, ventilating, air-conditioning, plumbing, electrical, electronic or fire safety systems, though these may be subject to structural loads. It does, however, apply to the design of the connections of building services to address earthquake loads (see Article 4.1.8.18.).
A-5.1.4.1.(2) Materials, Components and Assemblies with Multiple Functions. Where materials, components or assemblies are used to fulfill multiple functions, the designer may have to take
into account their function with regard to structural loads, heat transfer, air leakage, vapour diffusion, and protection from precipitation, surface and ground water, and sound transmission. Materials should be selected taking into account the environmental loads to which they will be subjected, their physical and chemical characteristics, and their installation. Design and construction details should satisfy all intended functions and ensure continuity within and between assemblies, without adversely impacting adjacent materials, components or assemblies. The designer should also anticipate unintended consequences when materials that may fulfill multiple functions are used. For example, building membranes consisting of modified bitumen compounds, which are commonly used to control both water ingress and air leakage, also typically have low vapour transmission characteristics. Similarly, extruded polystyrene boards, which are used as thermal insulation, may also act as a component of an air barrier assembly, thus requiring wind loads to be considered.
An increasing number of manufactured systems are being used to serve more than one (and sometimes all)
of the functions of an environmental separator: examples include pre-engineered building systems, exterior insulation finish systems, insulated metal panel systems, windows, other fenestration assemblies, and insulated precast concrete wall panels. These systems consist of combinations of pre-manufactured and/or site-built components, which are supposed to be assembled in a prescribed manner.
Ensuring compliance with one Section of Part 5 may impact compliance with other Sections of Part 5: for example, air barriers that are integral to some systems may also act as vapour barriers and impact condensation control. By extension, ensuring compliance with the requirements of Part 5 may impact compliance with other Parts of the NBC: for example, increasing the thickness of the insulation to improve an assembly’s thermal performance may impact its compliance with Part 3 with regard to fire resistance.
Compliance with a standard listed in Section 5.9. does not ensure that a system is appropriate for the intended application. The designer should consider all relevant criteria, beyond the standard tests, when selecting an appropriate product for a project.
A-5.1.4.1.(5) Past Performance as Basis for Compliance with Respect to Structural Loads. As discussed in Note A-5.1.4.1., a range of structural loads and effects can be imposed on materials, components and assemblies in environmental separators and assemblies exposed to the exterior. In many instances, compliance with Sentence 5.1.4.1.(1) for structural loads must be determined based on the loads and calculation methods described in Part 4 as specified in Sentence 5.1.4.1.(3) and the referenced Subsection 5.2.2., e.g. for cladding. In practice, compliance for some materials, components or assemblies of environmental separators and assemblies exposed to the exterior is determined by relying on provisions governing the use of alternative solutions (such as Clause 1.2.1.1.(1)(b) of Division A).
For some very common building elements and installations, however, there is a very large body of evidence of proven performance over a long period of time. In these cases, imposing the degree of analysis, or documentation of performance, required by Part 4 or Section 2.3. of Division C would be unnecessary and onerous. Clause 5.1.4.1.(5)(b) is intended to address these particular cases. Because the constructions are so
5-22 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B A-5.1.4.2.
widely accepted throughout the industry and the body of evidence is so substantial (though not necessarily documented in an organized fashion), there should be no question that detailed analysis or documentation is unnecessary.
Whether compliance of a particular material, component or assembly may be determined based on past performance depends not only on the type of material, component or assembly, but also on its intended function, the particular loads to which it will be subject and the magnitude of those loads. Because the possible combinations and permutations are infinite, only guidelines can be provided as to when past performance
is a reasonable basis for determining compliance.
In determining compliance based on past performance, the period of past performance considered should be a substantial number of years. For example, 30 years is often used to do life-cycle cost analysis of the viability of investments in building improvements. This period is more than long enough for most deficiencies to show up. There should be no question as to the structural adequacy of a material, component or assembly that has been successfully used in a given application for such a period.
The determination of compliance may be based on past performance only where the function of the material, component or assembly is identical to that of the materials, components or assemblies used as a reference, and where the expected loads do not exceed those imposed on the reference materials, components or assemblies. For example, the acceptance of gypsum board, and its fastening, to serve as part of the backing wall supporting cladding cannot be based on the performance of gypsum board that has served only as an interior finish.
The determination of compliance may be based on past performance only where the properties of the material, component or assembly are identical or superior to those of the materials, components or assemblies used as a reference. For example, where a component of a certain gauge of a particular metal has provided acceptable performance, the same component made of the same metal or a stronger one would be acceptable.
Compliance with respect to various loads may be determined individually. A particular material may have to be designed to Part 4 to establish acceptable resistance to wind or earthquake loads, for example, but past performance may be adequate to determine that the material and normal fastening will support the material’s dead load and will resist loads imposed by thermal and moisture-related expansion and contraction.
Past performance is a reasonable basis for determining compliance for lighter materials, components or assemblies not subject to wind load; for example, semi-rigid thermal insulation installed in wall assemblies where other materials, components or assemblies are installed to resist air pressure loads.
Past performance is an appropriate basis for determining compliance for some smaller elements that will be subject to wind loads but are continually supported or fastened behind elements that are designed for wind loads, for example, standard flashing over wall penetrations.
It should be noted that this particular approach to demonstrating compliance pertains only to the resistance or accommodation of structural loads described in Part 4. The resistance or accommodation of environmental loads, resistance to deterioration, and material compatibility must still be addressed in accordance with Part 5.
A-5.1.4.1.(6)(b) and (c) Accommodating Movement. It is well understood that the deflection of the backing assembly in a wall can have significant effects on the performance of the cladding. For example, CSA S304, “Design of Masonry Structures,” specifies the maximum deflection criteria for backing assemblies to masonry veneer. Clauses 5.1.4.1.(6)(b) and (c) are written in very general terms in recognition of the fact that not only can the deflection of cladding affect the performance of the backing assembly, but that the excessive deflection of any element has the potential to adversely affect the performance of any adjacent element. Similarly, inter-storey drift has the potential to adversely affect the performance of components and assemblies of environmental separators. CSA O86, “Engineering Design in Wood,” specifies a method for calculating building movement due to changes in moisture content. The effects of movement should
be avoided or accommodated.
A-5.1.4.2. Deterioration. Environmental loads that must be considered include but are not limited to: sound, light and other types of radiation, temperature, moisture, air pressure, acids and alkalis.
Mechanisms of deterioration include:
• structural (impact, air pressure)
• hygrothermal(freeze-thaw,differentialmovementduetothermalexpansionandcontraction,icelensing) • electrochemical(oxidation,electrolyticaction,galvanicaction,solardeterioration)
• biochemical (biological attack, intrusion by insects and rodents).
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 5-23
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-5.2.1.1.(3) Division B
Information on the effects of deformations in building elements can be found in the Commentary entitled Effects of Deformations in Building Components in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
Resistance to deterioration may be determined based on field performance, accelerated testing or compliance with guidelines provided by evaluation agencies recognized by the authority having jurisdiction. Guidance can be found in CSA S478, “Guideline on Durability in Buildings.”
Building components should be designed with some understanding of the length of time over which they will effectively perform their intended function. Actual service life will depend on the materials used and the environment to which they are exposed. The design should take into consideration these factors, the particular function of the component and the implications of premature failure, the ease of access for maintenance, repair or replacement, and the cost of repair or replacement.
Many buildings are designed such that access for maintenance, repair or replacement is not possible without damaging—or seriously risking damaging—other building elements. This can become a considerable deterrent to proper maintenance thus compromising the performance of the subject materials, components and assemblies, or other elements of the building. In cases where it is known or expected that maintenance, repair or replacement is likely to be required for certain elements before such time as the building undergoes a major retrofit, special consideration should be given to providing easy access to those elements. Anchorage points for maintenance personnel should be considered during the design of multi-storey buildings, including those of wood-frame construction, as adding them post-construction can be difficult.
Where the use of a building or space, or the services for a building or space, are changed significantly, an assessment of the impact of the changes on the environmental separators should be conducted to preclude premature failures that could create hazardous conditions.
A-5.2.1.1.(3) Soil Temperatures. In theory, soil temperatures are needed to determine the conformance of a design to the requirements related to heat transfer and vapour diffusion. In practice, standard construction in a particular area may have proven to perform quite adequately and detailed calculations of soil temperature are unnecessary. (See also Sentence 5.2.1.3.(2).)
A-5.2.1.2.(1) Interior Environmental Loads. The interior environmental conditions required depend on the intended use of the spaces in the building as defined in the building program. Spaces in different types of buildings and different spaces within a single building may impose different loads on the separators between interior and exterior spaces and between adjacent interior spaces. The separators must be designed to withstand the expected loads.
A-5.2.2.1.(2)(c) Determination of Structural Loads and Effects. As regards materials, components and assemblies and their interfaces that are installed in buildings to which Part 5 applies, the effects of earthquake loads on their ability to resist or accommodate environmental loads are generally only taken into account in the design of post-disaster buildings. For all other buildings, damage to building components during seismic events is anticipated and these buildings are not intended to be functional after the event. However, for post-disaster buildings, seismic effects must be taken into account in the design for environmental separation, as these buildings are required to have an adequate degree of functionality after the design event to meet their intended function (see Article 4.1.8.13. for deflections and drift limits for post-disaster buildings).
However, it is important to note that earthquake effects must be taken into account in the seismic design of all building materials, components and assemblies and their interfaces covered by Article 4.1.8.18. to address life safety and the structural protection of buildings.
A-5.2.2.2. Resistance to Wind and Other Air Pressure Loads. The wind load provisions apply to roofing and other materials subject to wind-uplift loads.
Note that, although Article 5.2.2.2. is specifically concerned with wind loads and directly references only one Article from Part 4, Sentence 5.2.2.1.(1) references all of Part 4 and would invoke Article 4.1.7.10. for example, which is concerned with air pressure loads on interior walls and partitions.
A-5.2.2.2.(4) Membrane Roofing Systems. Wind loads for membrane roofing systems must
be calculated in accordance with Part 4. The tested uplift resistance and factored load should satisfy the requirements of the Commentary entitled Limit States Design in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
5-24 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B A-5.3.1.2.
The test method described in CAN/CSA-A123.21, “Dynamic Wind Uplift Resistance of Membrane-Roofing Systems,” applies only to membrane roofing systems whose components’ resistance to wind uplift is achieved by fasteners or adhesives. It does not apply to roofing systems that use ballasts, such as gravel or pavers, to secure the membrane against wind uplift.
In the case of membrane roofing systems in which the waterproof membrane is attached to the structural deck using mechanical fasteners, the wind-induced forces and the roofing system’s response are time- and space-dependent and, thus, dynamic in nature. Further information on the design and evaluation of such systems can be found in “A Guide for the Wind Design of Mechanically Attached Flexible Membrane Roofs,” published by NRC.
The wind uplift resistance obtained from the test method in CAN/CSA-A123.21 is limited to configurations with specific fastener or adhesive patterns. To extrapolate the test data to non-tested configurations, refer to ANSI/SPRI WD-1, “Wind Design Standard Practice for Roofing Assemblies,” for a rational calculation procedure. However, in using this extrapolation procedure, wind loads should be calculated in accordance with the NBC. NRC’s guide for wind design referenced above provides further guidance and examples of wind load calculations.
A-5.3. Heat Transfer. In addressing issues related to health and safety, Section 5.3. calls up levels of thermal resistance needed to minimize condensation on or within environmental separators, and to ensure thermal conditions appropriate for the building use. Energy regulations, where they exist, specify levels of thermal resistance required for energy efficiency or call up energy performance levels, which relate to levels of thermal resistance. Where Part 5 calls for levels of thermal resistance higher than those required by the energy regulations, the requirements of Part 5 take precedence.
A-5.3.1.1. Required Resistance to Heat Transfer. The control of heat flow is required wherever there is an intended temperature difference across the building assembly. The use of the term “intended” is important since, whenever interior space is separated from exterior space, temperature differences will occur.
The interior of an unheated warehouse, for example, will often be at a different temperature from the exterior due to solar radiation, radiation from the building to the night sky and the time lag in temperature change due to the thermal mass of the building and its contents. If this temperature difference is not “intended,” no special consideration need be given to the control of heat flow.
If the warehouse is heated or cooled, thus making the temperature difference “intended,” some consideration would have to be given to the control of heat flow.
It should be noted, however, that in many cases, such as with adjacent interior spaces, there will be an intended temperature difference but the difference will not be great. In these cases, the provisions to control heat flow may be little or no more than would be provided by any standard interior separator. That is, materials typically used in the construction of partitions may provide the separation needed to meet the requirements of Section 5.3. without adding what are generally considered to be “insulating” materials.
A-5.3.1.2. Material and Component Properties and Condensation. Total prevention of condensation is generally unnecessary and its achievement is rarely a certainty at design conditions. Part 5, therefore, requires that condensation be minimized. The occurrence of condensation should be sufficiently rare, or the quantities accumulated should be sufficiently small and dry rapidly enough, to avoid material deterioration and the growth of mould and fungi.
The Harmonized North American Fenestration Standard, AAMA/WDMA/CSA 101/I.S.2/A440, “NAFS – North American Fenestration Standard/Specification for Windows, Doors, and Skylights,” identifies procedures to determine the condensation resistance and thermal transmittance of windows, doors and skylights though testing for condensation resistance is presented as optional in the standard. As such, a fenestration product that meets the standard’s requirements on air leakage, water penetration, uniform load and other performance requirements may not meet the condensation resistance performance level needed for a given application. Only the physical test procedure presented in CSA A440.2, “Fenestration Energy Performance,” can be used to establish the temperature index (I) value, which denotes condensation resistance performance evaluation criteria. It is recommended that designers specify I values for a given application to minimize the potential for condensation. Further guidance on the selection of the correct I value is provided in CSA A440.3, “User Guide to CSA A440.2-19, Fenestration Energy Performance.”
The scope of AAMA/WDMA/CSA 101/I.S.2/A440, which is referenced in Subsection 5.9.2., includes skylights and tubular daylighting devices (TDD). Where skylights and TDDs pass through unconditioned space, their
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 5-25
  © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-5.3.1.2.(1) Division B
wells and shafts may become the environmental separator and would therefore have to comply with the requirements of Part 5.
A-5.3.1.2.(1) Use of Thermal Insulation or Mechanical Systems for Environmental Control. The level of thermal resistance required to avoid condensation on the warm side of an assembly or within an assembly (at the vapour barrier), and to permit the maintenance of indoor conditions appropriate for the occupancy depends on
• the occupancy
• the exterior design air temperature
• the interior design air temperature and relative humidity • the capacity of the heating system, and
• the means of delivering heat.
To control condensation on the interior surface of an exterior wall, for example, the interior surface must not fall below the dew point of the interior air. If, for instance, the interior air is 20°C and 35% RH, the dew point will be 4°C. If the interior air is 20°C and 55% RH, the dew point will be 11°C.
Where the exterior design temperature is mild, such as in south coastal British Columbia, the interior RH during the heating season may well be around 55%. With an exterior temperature of -7°C, the materials in the environmental separator would have to provide a mere RSI 0.082 to avoid condensation on the interior surface. Depending on the specific properties of the material, this RSI might be provided by 10-mm plywood. Therefore, materials generally recognized as thermal insulation would not be required only to limit condensation on the warmer side of the building envelope.
For most of the country, however, exterior design temperatures are much lower; for example, -20°C in Toronto and Charlottetown, and -50°C in Dawson. In these cases, maintaining temperatures inboard of the vapour barrier above the dew point will require insulation or increased heat delivery to the environmental separator. Direct delivery of heat over the entire surface of the environmental separator is generally impractical. Indirect heat delivery may not be possible without raising the interior air temperatures above the comfort level. In any case, increased heat delivery would often entail excessive energy costs.
In addition to controlling condensation, interior surface temperatures must be warm enough to avoid occupant discomfort due to excessive heat loss by radiation. Depending on the occupancy of the subject spaces, this may require the installation of insulation even where it is not needed to control condensation.
A-5.3.1.3.(2) Position of Materials Providing Thermal Resistance. For a material providing thermal resistance to be effective, it must not be short-circuited by convective airflow through or around the material. The material must therefore be either
• thecomponentoftheairbarriersystemprovidingprincipalresistancetoairleakage,or • installedinfullandcontinuouscontactwithacontinuouslowairpermeancecomponent.
A-5.4.1.1. Resistance to Air Leakage. An air barrier system in above-grade building components and assemblies separating conditioned space from the exterior will reduce the likelihood of condensation due to air leakage, discomfort from drafts, the infiltration of dust and other pollutants, and interference in the performance of building services, such as HVAC and plumbing. These problems can all lead to serious health or safety hazards.
Currently, the most obvious and significant problems are due to moisture-related material deterioration, such as rot and corrosion, which can lead to the failure of component connections. The infiltration of dust and other pollutants can lead to a wide range of health problems. Where the separator is subject to high moisture levels, the pollutants may include fungus spores. Interference with the performance of building services
can lead to unhealthy conditions and potentially hazardous conditions during the heating season in many regions of the country.
There are few buildings intended for human occupancy where the interior space is conditioned but where an air barrier system is not required. Some industrial buildings, for example, may be exempt. This would depend, however, on the particular levels of interior conditioning provided, ventilation levels, protection provided
for the workers, and the tolerance of the building’s construction to the accumulation of condensation and potential precipitation ingress.
Some industrial buildings are provided with only limited conditioning, for example radiant heating, and ventilation levels are sufficient to reduce relative humidity to a level at which condensation will not accumulate to a degree that is problematic. Conversely, some industrial buildings, due to the processes they contain, operate at very high temperatures and high ventilation levels. In these cases, the building envelope will be maintained
5-26 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B A-5.4.1.2.(1) and (2)
at temperatures that will avoid condensation. In both examples above, either the ventilation rates or protective gear required in the work environment would protect the occupants from unacceptable levels of pollutants.
Where adjacent interior environments are sufficiently different, controlling airflow between those spaces is necessary to maintain conditions. Referring again to the industrial building examples above, assemblies separating office space from the work floor would likely require an air barrier system.
The word “minimize” is used in Clause 5.4.1.1.(1)(c) because not all moisture accumulation in an assembly need be of concern. Incidental condensation is normal but should be sufficiently rare and in sufficiently limited quantities and should dry rapidly enough to avoid material deterioration and the growth of mould or fungi.
An air barrier system is required in components and assemblies in contact with the ground to control the ingress of radon, and may be required to control the ingress of other soil gases such as methane.
In addition to an air barrier system, other measures may be required to reduce the radon concentration to a level below the guideline specified by Health Canada. Further information on protection from radon ingress can be found in:
• “Radon: A Guide for Canadian Homeowners” (CMHC/HC),
• “Guide for Radon Measurements in Public Buildings (Schools, Hospitals, Care Facilities, Detention
Centres)” (HC), and
• EPA 625/R-92/016, “Radon Prevention in the Design and Construction of Schools and Other Large
Buildings.”
A-5.4.1.2.(1) and (2) Air Leakage through the Air Barrier System.
The current requirements specify only a maximum air leakage rate for the material in the air barrier system that provides the principal resistance to air leakage.
Research and in-situ testing of installed air barrier systems have shown that the bulk of air leakage occurs through joints (between air barrier materials) and junctions (between air barrier components).
Ideally, a maximum air leakage rate for the complete air barrier system would be specified. The maximum acceptable rate will ultimately depend on warm and cold side temperatures and humidity conditions, and on the susceptibility of the environmental separator to moisture-related deterioration. Recommended maximum leakage rates for the air barrier system in an exterior envelope in most locations in Canada are shown in
Table A-5.4.1.2.(1) and (2). These values are for air barrier systems in opaque, insulated portions of the building envelope. They are not for whole buildings, as windows, doors and other openings are not included. The Table is provided for guidance when testing air barrier systems as portions of an envelope.
Table A-5.4.1.2.(1) and (2) Recommended Maximum Air Leakage Rates Forming Part of Note A-5.4.1.2.(1) and (2)
Warm Side Relative Humidity at 21°C
< 27% 27 to 55% > 55%
Recommended Maximum System Air Leakage Rate, L/(s•m2) at 75 Pa
0.15 0.10 0.05
Determining the leakage rate of a particular assembly, however, is problematic. There is little information available on the airtightness of the many air barrier systems used in building construction, and testing requires specialized equipment and expertise. Depending on the type of test,
• testingmaynotrepresenttheperformanceofthecompleteinstalledsystem, • the location of deficiencies may be difficult to identify, and
• rectification of deficiencies may not be feasible.
Despite the difficulties, when using a system whose performance is not known, it is recommended that tests be conducted. Testing options include:
• laboratory tests of small sections of the air barrier system, including the joints and intersections of different assemblies
• laboratory tests of large wall sections
• in-situ tests of characteristic envelope areas.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 5-27
   © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-5.5.1.1. Division B
A-5.5.1.1. Required Resistance to Vapour Diffusion. Resistance to vapour diffusion is required to reduce the likelihood of condensation within building assemblies, and the consequent potential for material deterioration and fungal growth. Deterioration such as rot and corrosion can lead to the failure of building components and connections, and interfere with the performance of building services. Some fungi can have very serious effects on health.
In Canada, relatively few buildings that are subject to temperature and vapour pressure differences would be constructed or operated in such a manner that the control of vapour diffusion would not need to be addressed in their design. Assemblies enclosing certain industrial spaces, as described in Note A-5.4.1.1. for example, may be exempt.
For residential spaces, and most other spaces that are conditioned for human occupancy, a means of vapour diffusion control is generally agreed to be necessary, even in the milder climates of the country. The questions in those cases pertain to the degree of control needed.
The word “minimize” is used in Sentence 5.5.1.1.(1) because not all moisture accumulation in an assembly need be of concern. Incidental condensation is normal but should be sufficiently rare and in sufficiently limited quantities, and should dry rapidly enough, to avoid material deterioration and the growth of mould or fungi. Here are some references regarding the effects of fungi on health:
• “FungalContaminationinPublicBuildings:HealthEffectsandInvestigationMethods,”HealthCanada • “Guidelines on Assessment and Remediation of Fungi in Indoor Environments,” New York City
Department of Health and Mental Hygiene (NYCDH)
A-5.5.1.2.(1) Vapour Barrier Materials and Installation. In the summer, many buildings are subject to conditions where the interior temperature is lower than the exterior temperature. Vapour transfer during these periods is from the exterior to the interior. In general, in Canada, the duration of these periods is sufficiently short, the driving forces are sufficiently low, and assemblies are constructed such that any accumulated moisture will dissipate before deterioration will occur.
Buildings such as freezer plants, however, may operate for much of the year at temperatures that are below the ambient exterior temperature. In these cases, the “warm” side of the assembly would be the exterior and a detailed analysis on an annual basis is required.
Steady state heat transfer and vapour diffusion calculations may be used to determine acceptable permeance levels for the vapour barrier and to identify appropriate positions for the vapour barrier within the building assembly.
A-5.6.1.1. Required Protection from Precipitation. Windows, cast-in-place concrete walls, and metal and glass curtain wall systems are examples of components and assemblies that, when properly designed and constructed, are expected to prevent the ingress of precipitation into a building. Assemblies such as roofs and veneer walls consist of materials specifically intended to screen precipitation.
Components and assemblies separating interior conditioned space from the exterior are generally required
to provide protection from the ingress of precipitation. Components and assemblies separating interior unconditioned space from the exterior may or may not be required to provide protection from the ingress of precipitation. Buildings such as stadia, parking garages and some seasonally occupied buildings, for example, may not require complete protection from the ingress of precipitation. The degree of protection will depend to a large extent on the materials selected for the building elements that will be exposed to precipitation.
The word “minimize” is used in Sentence 5.6.1.1.(1) because not all moisture ingress or accumulation in
an assembly need be of concern. The penetration of wind-driven rain past the cladding may not affect the long-term performance of the assembly, provided the moisture dries out or is drained away before it initiates any deterioration of building materials. When the design service life of a material or component is longer than the design service life of the overall assembly, taking into account the expected exposure to moisture, initiating deterioration of the material should not be of concern. That is to say, provided the material or component continues to provide the necessary level of performance for its intended service life and does not adversely affect the service life of the assembly of which it is a part, the deterioration of the material or component is not an issue.
A-5.6.1.2.(1) Ice Damming. Water leakage through sloped roofs is often due to the formation of ice dams at the eaves, which can be limited by controlling the transfer of heat to the roof through a combination of insulation and venting to dissipate heat. See Clause 5.3.1.2.(1)(d).
5-28 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B A-5.7.
A-5.6.2.1. Sealing and Drainage. Providing a surface-sealed, durable, watertight cover on the outside of a building is difficult. Where there is a likelihood of some penetration by precipitation into a component or assembly, drainage is generally required to direct the moisture to the exterior.
The degree of protection against precipitation ingress needed in any particular case and the approach taken to provide that protection will depend on
• the exterior loads imposed on the assembly
• the materials selected for the backing assembly,
• the use of the enclosed space, and
• the level of maintenance that will be acceptable to the owners.
Where exterior loads are greater, it may be prudent to select a precipitation protection system whose small failures will not be as likely to have an immediate impact on the building or its occupants. For example, drained and vented wall and vented roof assemblies are typical for low-rise residential buildings. More robust drained and vented wall assemblies are recommended for mid- and high-rise buildings where the cost of maintenance and repair could be high.
Where materials with a greater resistance to moisture are used in the assembly, a less rugged precipitation protection system or a less rigorous maintenance schedule may be acceptable. This might be the case, for example, where the wall or backing wall is concrete or masonry.
For spaces that are not intended for ongoing human occupancy, some rainwater leakage may not be of particular concern. This may be the case for certain warehouse spaces for example, depending on how the spaces are used and conditioned.
Information on the installation of flashing to drain water to the exterior of roof and wall assemblies may be found in a number of publications including, but not limited to:
• “ArchitecturalSheetMetalManual,”SheetMetalandAir-ConditioningContractorsNationalAssociation, Inc.
• “High-Rise Residential Construction Guide,” Tarion Warranty Corporation (formerly Ontario New Home Warranty Program)
• Technical Notes, National Concrete Masonry Association
• Roofing Specifications, Canadian Roofing Contractors’ Association
• “The NRCA Roofing Manual: Membrane Roof Systems” and “The NRCA Waterproofing Manual,”
National Roofing Contractors Association
• Technical Notes on Brick Construction, Brick Industry Association
Environmental separators installed in buildings of wood construction that exceed 4 storeys can be subjected to increased loading due to the height of the building. As such, certain design considerations may require different approaches from the common ones used by industry for buildings of 4 storeys or less. These considerations include, but are not limited to, the following:
• air barrier assemblies,
• fenestration selection,
• protection from precipitation,
• differential movement due to wood shrinkage,
• roofing selection and design, and
• riskofdeteriorationduetolongerexposureofmaterialstotheelementsduringconstruction.
Information on environmental separators and the loading to which they are subjected when installed in buildings of wood construction, as well as recommendations on dealing with differential movement, can be found in the following publications, among others:
• “Moisture and Wood-Frame Buildings,” Canadian Wood Council
• “Guide for Designing Energy-Efficient Building Enclosures for Wood-Frame Multi-Unit Residential
Buildings in Marine to Cold Climate Zones in North America,” FPInnovations and RDH Building Engineering Ltd.
A-5.7. Protection from Interior Sources of Water. Protection similar to that prescribed in
Section 5.7. may be required where interior assemblies are in contact with water (such as site-built showers, steam rooms, swimming pool areas) and where adjacent interior spaces need to be protected from the transfer of water through these assemblies.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 5-29
  © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-5.7.1.2.(2) Division B
A-5.7.1.2.(2) Drainage. Water should be directed away from the building and, ultimately, to a municipal drainage system, drainage ditch, swale, or other acceptable water management means. This can be accomplished by setting the building grade higher than the surrounding grades, by sloping the grade away from the building, by installing a surface water drainage system, or by a combination of these approaches. The chosen approach should follow generally accepted guidelines, such as the Rational Method of Stormwater Design by David B. Thompson, or other design methods acceptable to the authority having jurisdiction.
Ochre Deposition
Ochre deposition is associated with soil characteristics and groundwater conditions. Microorganisms, which are generally found in water-saturated soil, extract oxygen from elements such as iron, reducing it to ferrous ions. Once the iron has been reduced and solubilized, it migrates through the soil to foundation drains and can block them. The following document describes drainage systems that reduce the risk of ochre deposition in the drainage systems of new buildings and how to install them: BNQ 3661-500, “Dépôts d’ocre dans les systèmes de drainage des bâtiments – Partie I : Évaluation du risque pour la construction de nouveaux bâtiments et diagnostic pour des bâtiments existants et Partie II : Méthodes d'installation proposées pour nouveaux bâtiments et bâtiments existants.”
A-5.7.3.3.(1)(a) Imperfections. Examples of imperfections include shrinkage cracks, air holes, honeycombing, form-tie cone holes, and form joint ridges.
A-5.7.3.4.(1) Dampproofing. Dampproofing refers to the application of a material or materials to an environmental separation assembly to protect it and the interior space against the transfer of moisture due to the mechanisms of water vapour transmission, capillary action and pressure differences other than hydrostatic pressure.
A dampproofed assembly should be designed such that it can provide short-term resistance to the ingress of water due to occasional hydrostatic pressure from ground water.
A-5.8. Required Protection from Noise. Section 5.8. applies to the separation of dwelling units from other dwelling units and from spaces where noise may be generated with regard to sound transmission irrespective of Clause 5.1.2.1.(1)(b), which deals with the separation of dissimilar environments. It is understood that, at any time, there is the potential for sound levels to be quite different in adjoining dwelling units.
A-5.8.1.2. Using ASTC in lieu of STC. A designer may choose to use an ASTC rating of equal or higher numerical value than the required STC to show compliance where STC ratings are required.
An ASTC measurement or calculation will always yield a value equal to or lower than the STC for the same configuration, as the ASTC includes flanking transmission.
A-5.8.1.4. Methods of Calculating ASTC. The technical concepts, terminology, and calculation procedures relating to the detailed and simplified ASTC calculation methods are discussed in detail, with numerous worked examples, in the NRC publication entitled “Guide to Calculating Airborne Sound Transmission in Buildings.” This Guide includes references to readily-available sources of pertinent data.
For many common constructions, the calculations required by Article 5.8.1.4. can be performed using software tools, such as soundPATHS, which is available on NRC’s Web site.
The simplified calculation method may not always identify the prominent flanking paths. Furthermore, it corresponds more closely with the results of the detailed calculation method where the separating assembly and the flanking constructions are both constructed according to the same method, i.e. either both are lightweight construction (steel or wood framing) or both are heavyweight construction (masonry or concrete).
A-5.9.1.1.(1) Selection of Materials and Components and Compliance with Referenced Standards. It is important to note that Sentence 5.9.1.1.(1) is stated in such a way that the selection of materials and components is not limited to those traditionally recognized as serving particular functions or those for which a standard is identified in Table 5.9.1.1. This approach permits more flexibility than is provided by similar requirements in Part 9. As long as the selected material meets the performance requirements stated elsewhere in Part 5, the material may be used to serve the required function.
However, where the selected material or component, or its installation, falls within the scope of any of the standards listed in Table 5.9.1.1., the material, component or installation must comply with that standard. For example, if some resistance to heat transfer is required between two interior spaces and standard partition
5-30 Division B Amended Page National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
    © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B A-5.9.2.3.(1)
construction will provide the necessary resistance, the installation of one of the “thermal insulation” materials identified in the standard list is not required. If, on the other hand, one decides to install glass fibre insulation, the material must conform to CAN/ULC-S702, “Mineral Fibre Thermal Insulation for Buildings.”
A-Table 5.9.1.1. Selection and Installation of Sealants. Analysis of many sealant joint failures indicates that the majority of failures can be attributed to improper joint preparation and deficient installation of the sealant and various joint components. The following ASTM guidelines describe several aspects that should be considered when applying sealants in unprotected environments to achieve a durable application:
• ASTM C 1193, “Use of Joint Sealants,”
• ASTM C 1299, “Selection of Liquid-Applied Sealants,” and
• ASTMC1472,“CalculatingMovementandOtherEffectsWhenEstablishingSealantJointWidth.”
The sealant manufacturer’s literature should always be consulted for recommended procedures and materials.
A-5.9.2.1.(3) Airtightness and Watertightness of Wired Glass Windows. Fixed wired glass assemblies are sometimes permitted as closures in vertical fire separations. The airtightness and watertightness requirements are waived for these windows when used in such an application, in recognition of the fact that the availability of assemblies that meet both the requirements of the window standards and the requirements for fire resistance may be limited. However, control of air and water leakage should not be ignored: measures should be taken to attempt to comply with applicable requirements.
A-5.9.2.2. Manufactured Windows, Doors and Skylights.
Design Values
CSA A440S1, “Canadian Supplement to AAMA/WDMA/CSA 101/I.S.2/A440-17, NAFS – North American Fenestration Standard/Specification for Windows, Doors, and Skylights,” requires that the individual performance levels achieved by the product for structural resistance, water penetration resistance and air leakage resistance be reported on the product’s performance label.
Storm Doors and Windows
Where storm doors and storm windows are not incorporated in a rated window or door assembly, they should be designed and constructed to comply with the applicable requirements of Part 5 regarding such properties as appropriate air leakage and structural loads.
Forced Entry Test
Even though the performance label on rated windows, doors and skylights does not explicitly indicate that the product has passed the forced entry resistance test, products are required to pass this test in order to be rated.
A-5.9.2.3.(1) Installation and Field Testing of Windows, Doors and Skylights.
Installation
The installation details of windows, doors, skylights and their components must be appropriately designed and implemented for the building envelope assembly to perform acceptably overall. The proper design
of the installation details provides the information necessary to integrate the structure and air, vapour
and moisture barrier functions of windows, doors and skylights into the overall design of the building envelope assembly. Construction should be carried out in accordance with these details to achieve an appropriate level of long-term performance. Further guidance on installation detailing can be found in CAN/CSA-A440.4, “Window, Door, and Skylight Installation.”
Field Testing
It is recommended that the performance of installed windows, doors and skylights be field tested early in the envelope construction phase so that any discontinuities can be readily identified and corrected before construction of the building envelope assembly is completed. Additional field testing during subsequent construction phases to monitor installation consistency is also recommended. Field test procedures should be carried out in accordance with test standards such as ASTM E 783, “Field Measurement of Air Leakage Through Installed Exterior Windows and Doors,” and ASTM E 1105, “Field Determination of Water Penetration of Installed Exterior Windows, Skylights, Doors, and Curtain Walls, by Uniform or Cyclic Static
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 5-31
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-5.9.2.4.(3) Division B
Air Pressure Difference.” Further guidance can be found in Annex D of CAN/CSA-A440.4, “Window, Door, and Skylight Installation,” however, the performance requirements developed in AAMA/WDMA/CSA 101/I.S.2/A440, “NAFS – North American Fenestration Standard/Specification for Windows, Doors, and Skylights,” should be used rather than the industry performance data values listed in CAN/CSA-A440.4.
A-5.9.2.4.(3) Heat Transfer through Fire-Rated Glazed Assemblies. Thermal bridging through fire-rated glazed assemblies should not be ignored; measures should be taken to minimize condensation consistent with the intent of Sentence 5.9.2.4.(2).
A-5.9.3. Testing Standards for Other Fenestration Assemblies. Subsection 5.9.3. references ASTM test methods. The following AAMA standards can also be used to evaluate the performance characteristics of other fenestration assemblies:
• AAMA 501, “Test for Exterior Walls,”
• AAMA501.1,“WaterPenetrationofWindows,CurtainWallsandDoorsUsingDynamicPressure,”
• AAMA501.2,“QualityAssuranceandDiagnosticWaterLeakageFieldCheckofInstalledStorefronts,
Curtain Walls, and Sloped Glazing Systems,”
• AAMA501.4,“RecommendedStaticTestMethodforEvaluatingCurtainWallandStorefrontSystems
Subjected to Seismic and Wind Induced Interstory Drifts,”
• AAMA 501.5, “Thermal Cycling of Exterior Walls,” and
• AAMA501.6,“RecommendedDynamicTestMethodForDeterminingTheSeismicDriftCausingGlass
Fallout From A Wall System.”
A-5.9.3.1.(1) Terminology for Other Fenestration Assemblies.
Curtain Wall
A curtain wall is considered to be a continuous wall cladding assembly (which may include fenestration and opaque portions) that is hung away from the edge of the primary floor structure. Curtain wall assemblies do not generally support vertical loads other than their own weight. Anchorage is typically provided by anchors that connect back to the floor structure. Curtain wall assemblies can be either “stick built,” meaning each main unit is assembled on-site, or a “unitized” system, meaning factory-assembled main units are installed and connected together on-site.
Window Wall
A window wall is considered to be a wall cladding assembly (which may include fenestration and opaque portions) that spans from the top of a primary floor structure to the underside of the next higher primary floor structure. Window wall assemblies do not generally support vertical loads other than their own weight. Primary provision for anchorage occurs at head and sill connections with the adjoining floor structure. Window wall assemblies may include separate or integral floor edge covers.
Storefront
A storefront is considered to be a non-residential assembly (which may include fenestration and opaque portions) consisting of one or more elements that could include doors, windows and curtain wall framing. Storefronts do not generally support vertical loads other than their own weight. Storefront profiles are typically narrow, rectilinear framing members that hold a combination of pocket glazing and applied glazing stops to securely retain the infills. Vertical framing members typically span the height of one floor or are retained within a structural punched opening.
Storefront assemblies are designed/selected to take into account the anticipated service and exposure conditions, which may be different than those for other portions of the building.
Glazed Architectural Structures
Glazed architectural structures are considered glazing assemblies that are supported in a non-traditional manner, such as corner-clamped, point-supported, linear-supported and edge-clamped glazing. Structural support systems can include, but are not limited to, tension cables, tension rods, steel and glass. Glazed architectural structures do not generally support vertical loads other than their own weight. These assemblies are designed/selected to take into account the anticipated service and exposure conditions, which may be different than those for other portions of the building.
5-32
Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
  © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B A-5.9.3.5.(2)
Skylights that are not covered by AAMA/WDMA/CSA 101/I.S.2/A440, “NAFS – North American Fenestration Standard/Specification for Windows, Doors, and Skylights,” are considered glazed architectural structures.
A-5.9.3.2.(1) Structural and Environmental Loads. The applicable laboratory test method for demonstrating adequate structural performance of other fenestration assemblies is ASTM E 330/E 330M, “Structural Performance of Exterior Windows, Doors, Skylights and Curtain Walls by Uniform Static Air Pressure Difference.”
A-5.9.3.3.(1) Resistance to Condensation. Notwithstanding that other fenestration assemblies are not fully covered under the testing scope of CSA A440.2, “Fenestration Energy Performance,” the test method described therein can be used to evaluate their resistance to condensation, with technical modifications to accommodate differences in the size and configuration of the specimen. It is also common practice to use one cold cycle of AAMA 501.5, “Thermal Cycling of Exterior Walls,” to assess the potential for condensation. Both methods can be used for mock-ups in laboratory performance evaluations, however, only the test method
in CSA A440.2 should be used if a Temperature Index is required. In most cases, the project specification documents establish the hygrothermal conditions (i.e., exterior temperature, interior temperature, interior relative humidity) for which the potential for condensation should be minimized. Under these conditions, the aforementioned test methods can be used to aid in the selection of the appropriate system performance to minimize the potential for interior surface condensation. In all cases, care should be taken in the construction and configuration of the specimen, as these parameters may have an impact on its thermal performance and resistance to condensation. These parameters may include, without limitation, interior wall construction and finishes, heating systems, ventilation systems, etc., to simulate the actual in-service conditions as closely as practicable.
A-5.9.3.4.(2) Air Leakage.
Air Leakage Rate and Test Pressure
A lower air leakage rate and/or higher differential test pressure can be selected for specific applications of other fenestration assemblies where tight control of airflow is required to prevent interstitial condensation (e.g., in concealed spaces), improve thermal comfort (e.g., in hospitals, seniors’ residences), or prevent
the migration of airborne contaminants (e.g., in food and drug research, manufacturing applications, biological laboratories). It is typical of other fenestration assemblies to be used as the sole building envelope component; where this is the case, a correspondingly higher degree of airtightness may be required.
In addition, higher test pressure differentials can be used to evaluate assemblies with low air leakage, such as non-operable or fixed fenestration systems whose air leakage rates are not easily measurable at the lower standard pressure differentials.
Standard Test Methods
The applicable laboratory test method for determining the rate of air leakage is ASTM E 283, “Determining Rate of Air Leakage Through Exterior Windows, Curtain Walls, and Doors Under Specified Pressure Differences Across the Specimen.” If field testing for air leakage is to be conducted, the applicable test method is ASTM E 783, “Field Measurement of Air Leakage Through Installed Exterior Windows and Doors.”
A-5.9.3.4.(3) Systems Excluded from Air Leakage Requirements. The systems listed in Sentence 5.9.3.4.(3) perform different functions than other fenestration assemblies and are therefore exempted from complying with the air leakage requirements.
A-5.9.3.5.(2) Standard Test Methods. The applicable laboratory test method for determining the water penetration resistance of curtain walls and storefront assemblies is ASTM E 331, “Water Penetration of Exterior Windows, Skylights, Doors, and Curtain Walls by Uniform Static Air Pressure Difference.” The applicable laboratory test method for window wall assemblies is either ASTM E 331 or ASTM E 547, “Water Penetration of Exterior Windows, Skylights, Doors, and Curtain Walls by Cyclic Static Air Pressure Difference.”
If field testing for water penetration is to be conducted, the applicable test method is ASTM E 1105, “Field Determination of Water Penetration of Installed Exterior Windows, Skylights, Doors, and Curtain Walls, by Uniform or Cyclic Static Air Pressure Difference.”
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 5-33
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-5.9.3.5.(3) Division B
A-5.9.3.5.(3) Water Penetration. Notwithstanding that other fenestration assemblies are not covered under the testing scope of CSA A440S1, “Canadian Supplement to AAMA/WDMA/CSA 101/I.S.2/A440-17, NAFS – North American Fenestration Standard/Specification for Windows, Doors, and Skylights,” they must be tested at the driving rain wind pressure calculated in accordance with the procedure described therein.
A-5.9.3.5.(4) Systems Excluded from Water Penetration Requirements. The systems listed in Sentence 5.9.3.5.(4) perform different functions than other fenestration assemblies and are therefore exempted from complying with the water penetration requirements.
A-5.9.4.1.(1) Exterior Insulation Finish Systems (EIFS). The reference to CAN/ULC-S716.1, “Exterior Insulation and Finish Systems (EIFS) - Materials and Systems,” in Clause 5.9.4.1.(1)(b) does not preclude the use of other component materials that may also meet the intent of the Code. For example, using mineral-fibre insulation in lieu of other rigid insulation types, mechanical fastening methods for the insulation component in lieu of adhesive, or a type of water-resistive barrier other than a liquid-applied water-resistive barrier could be acceptable.
The following two companion standards facilitate the application of and conformance with CAN/ULC-S716.1: • CAN/ULC-S716.2,“ExteriorInsulationandFinishSystems(EIFS)-InstallationofEIFSComponentsand
Water Resistive Barrier,” and
• CAN/ULC-S716.3,“ExteriorInsulationandFinishSystem(EIFS)-DesignApplication.”
Additional information on EIFS design and installation can be found in the EIFS Council of Canada’s “EIFS Practice Manual” and the manufacturer’s literature.
EIFS Selection
CAN/ULC-S716.1 provides minimum performance criteria for EIFS materials and systems that are tested under specific laboratory test protocols identified in the standard. However, compliance with this standard does not ensure that a system is appropriate for all projects. When selecting an EIFS product, designers should consider all relevant criteria—not only those covered by the tests in CAN/ULC-S716.1—including, but not limited to,
• building exposure
• localclimatecharacteristics(wind,precipitation,temperaturevariations,solarexposure) • intended building use
• intended resistance to damage and deterioration
• construction tolerances
• constructability
Design and Construction of EIFS Drainage Cavity
The drainage capacity and thermal performance of the EIFS assembly can be affected by the dimensions and configuration of the EIFS drainage cavity.
EIFS are installed over other building materials such as sheathing and primary structural components, which have various construction installation tolerances. Designers should take into consideration the cumulative effects of construction tolerances and sequencing when specifying the drainage method and the cavity dimensions and configuration in order to ensure adequate drainage.
Designers should also take into account the impact of air movement, which varies depending on cavity size and the extent of venting, on the EIFS’ thermal performance when reviewing the overall thermal performance of the building envelope. ASTM C 1363, “Thermal Performance of Building Materials and Envelope Assemblies by Means of a Hot Box Apparatus,” presents one method for assessing the thermal performance of assemblies.
5-34
Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
Part 6
Heating, Ventilating and Air-conditioning
6.1. General
6.1.1. Application ........................................ 6-1
6.1.2. Definitions ......................................... 6-1
6.1.3. Plans and Specifications ................. 6-1
6.2. Planning
6.2.1. General .............................................. 6-1
6.2.2. Incinerators ....................................... 6-3
6.2.3. Solid Fuel Storage ............................ 6-3
6.3. Ventilation Systems
6.3.1. Ventilation ......................................... 6-3
6.3.2. Air Duct Systems .............................. 6-6
6.3.3. Chimneys and Venting
Equipment ....................................... 6-11
6.3.4. Ventilation for Laboratories .......... 6-11
6.4. Heating Systems
6.4.1. Heating Appliances, General ........ 6-13
6.4.2. Unit Heaters .................................... 6-13
6.4.3. Radiators and Convectors ............. 6-13
6.5. Thermal Insulation Systems
6.5.1. Insulation ........................................ 6-13
6.6. Refrigeration and Cooling Systems
6.6.1. Refrigerating Systems and
Equipment for Air-conditioning .... 6-13
6.7. Piping Systems
6.7.1. Piping for Heating and Cooling Systems ........................................... 6-14
6.7.2. Storage Bins ................................... 6-14
6.8. Equipment Access
6.8.1. Openings ......................................... 6-15
6.9. Fire Safety Systems
6.9.1. General ............................................ 6-15
6.9.2. Dampers and Ductwork ................. 6-16
6.9.3. Carbon Monoxide Alarms .............. 6-16
6.9.4. Ash Storage .................................... 6-17
6.10. Objectives and Functional Statements
6.10.1. Objectives and Functional
Statements ...................................... 6-17
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Notes to Part 6 ................ 6-21
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division B
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
Part 6
Heating, Ventilating and Air-conditioning
Section 6.1. General
6.1.1. 6.1.1.1.
6.1.1.2.
6.1.2. 6.1.2.1.
6.1.3. 6.1.3.1.
Application Scope
1) The scope of this Part shall be as described in Subsection 1.3.3. of Division A. Application
1) This Part applies to systems and equipment for heating, ventilating and air-conditioning services.
Definitions Defined Terms
1) Words that appear in italics are defined in Article 1.4.1.2. of Division A. Plans and Specifications
Required Plans and Specifications
1) Plans, specifications and other information for heating, ventilating and
air-conditioning systems shall conform to Subsection 2.2.6. of Division C.
Section 6.2. Planning
6.2.1. General
6.2.1.1. Good Engineering Practice
(See Note A-6.2.1.1.)
1) Heating, ventilating and air-conditioning systems, including mechanical refrigeration system, shall be designed, constructed and installed in conformance with good engineering practice such as that described in, but not limited to,
a) the ASHRAE Handbooks and Standards,
b) the HRAI Digest,
c) the Hydronics Institute Manuals,
d) the NFPA Standards,
e) the SMACNA Manuals,
f) CSA B214, “Installation Code for Hydronic Heating Systems,”
g) CAN/CSA-Z317.2, “Special Requirements for Heating, Ventilation, and Air-Conditioning (HVAC) Systems in Health Care Facilities,” and
h) EPA 625/R-92/016, “Radon Prevention in the Design and Construction of Schools and Other Large Buildings.”
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division B 6-1
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 6.2.1.2.
Division B
6.2.1.2.
Outdoor Design Conditions
1) The outdoor conditions to be used in designing heating, ventilating and
air-conditioning systems shall be determined in conformance with Subsection 1.1.3.
2) Except as provided in Sentence 6.3.2.14.(1), the outdoor air quality conditions of the geographic area of the building site to be used in designing ventilation systems shall conform to appropriate provincial or territorial requirements or, in the absence of such requirements, shall be equal to or less than the maximum acceptable levels stated in the Canada-wide Standards for Particulate Matter (PM) and Ozone as follows:
a) a 24 hour average of 30 μg/m3 for particulate matter that is 2.5 μm or less in diameter (PM2.5), and
b) an 8 hour average of 65 ppb for ground-level ozone.
(See Note A-6.2.1.2.(2).)
Expansion, Contraction and System Pressure
1) Heating and cooling systems shall be designed to allow for expansion and contraction of the heat transfer fluid and to maintain the system pressure within the rated working pressure limits of all components of the system.
Structural Movement
(See Note A-6.2.1.4.)
1) Mechanical systems and equipment shall be designed and installed to accommodate the maximum relative structural movement provided for in the construction of the building.
Installation Standards
1) Except as provided in Articles 6.9.4.2. and 6.3.1.5., the installation of heating and air-conditioning equipment, including mechanical refrigeration equipment, and including provisions for mounting, clearances and air supply, shall conform
to appropriate provincial or territorial requirements or, in the absence of such requirements, to the requirements of
a) CSA B51, “Boiler, Pressure Vessel, and Pressure Piping Code,”
b) CSA B52, “Mechanical Refrigeration Code,”
c) CSA B139, “Installation Code for Oil-Burning Equipment,”
d) CSA B149.1, “Natural Gas and Propane Installation Code,”
e) CSA B365, “Installation Code for Solid-Fuel-Burning Appliances and Equipment,” or
f) CSA C22.1, “Canadian Electrical Code, Part I.”
Installation – General
1) Equipment requiring periodic maintenance and forming part of a heating, ventilating or air-conditioning system shall be installed with provision for access for inspection, maintenance, repair and cleaning. (See Note A-6.2.1.6.(1).)
2) Mechanical equipment shall be provided with guards so as to prevent injury.
3) Heating, ventilating or air-conditioning systems shall be protected from
freezing if they may be adversely affected by freezing temperatures.
Asbestos
1) Asbestos shall not be used in HVAC systems and equipment.
Comfort Cooling or Drinking Water Cooling Systems
1) It is not permitted to install comfort cooling or drinking water cooling systems
without a recirculation loop.
6.2.1.3.
6.2.1.4.
6.2.1.5.
6.2.1.6.
6.2.1.7.
6.2.1.8.
6-2 Division B
Amended Page National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
  © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 6.3.1.3.
6.2.2. Incinerators 6.2.2.1. Applicable Standard
1) The design, construction, installation and alteration of every indoor incinerator shall conform to NFPA 82, “Incinerators and Waste and Linen Handling Systems and Equipment.”
6.2.3. Solid Fuel Storage 6.2.3.1. Solid Fuel Storage Bins
1) A storage bin for solid fuel shall not be located above a sewer opening or drain opening.
2) Storage bins for solid fuel shall be designed and constructed so that the air temperature in the bin or the surface temperature of any part of the floor or walls is below 50°C.
Section 6.3. Ventilation Systems
6.3.1. 6.3.1.1.
Ventilation
Required Ventilation
1) All buildings shall be ventilated in accordance with this Part.
2) Except in storage garages covered by Article 6.3.1.4., dwelling units, corridors
and stairwells covered by Article 6.3.1.8., the rates at which outdoor air is supplied to buildings by ventilation systems shall
a) be equal to or higher than the rates required by ANSI/ASHRAE 62.1, “Ventilation for Acceptable Indoor Air Quality,” or
b) conform to one of the methods in that Standard.
3) The ventilation system must be verified and tested to ensure that the difference between the airflow rate measured and the rate prescribed by the designer does not exceed 10% and a report must be drawn up to record the airflow rate measured and the corresponding airflow rate for each grille, diffuser, outdoor air intake, exhaust air outlet and ventilation system indicated on the plans given to the owner.
Crawl Spaces and Attic or Roof Spaces
1) Unconditioned and unoccupied crawl spaces and unconditioned and unoccupied attic or roof spaces shall be ventilated by natural or mechanical means as required by Part 5. (See Note A-6.3.1.2.(1).)
Natural Ventilation
1) Except as permitted by Sentence (2), the ventilation required by Article 6.3.1.1. shall be provided by mechanical ventilation, except that it can be provided by natural ventilation or a combination of natural and mechanical ventilation in
a) buildings of other than residential occupancy having an occupant load of not more than one person per 40 m2 during normal use,
b) buildings of industrial occupancy where the nature of the processes contained therein permits or requires the use of large openings in the building envelope even during the winter, and
c) seasonal buildings not intended to be occupied during the winter.
2) Where climatic conditions permit, buildings containing occupancies other than residential occupancies may be ventilated by natural ventilation methods in lieu of mechanical ventilation where engineering data demonstrates that such a method will provide the required ventilation for the type of occupancy.
6.3.1.2.
6.3.1.3.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 6-3
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 6.3.1.4.
Division B
6.3.1.4.
Ventilation of Storage Garages
1) Except as provided in Sentences (4) and (6), an enclosed storage garage for five or more motor vehicles shall have a mechanical ventilation system designed to
a) limit the concentration of carbon monoxide to not more than 100 parts per million parts of air,
b) limit the concentration of nitrogen dioxide to not more than 3 parts per million parts of air, where the majority of the vehicles stored are powered by diesel-fuelled engines, or
c) provide, during operating hours, a continuous supply of outdoor air at a rate of not less than 3.9 L/s for each square metre of floor area (see Article 3.3.1.20.).
(See also Sentence 3.3.5.4.(4).) (See Note A-6.3.1.4.(1).)
2) Mechanical ventilation systems provided in accordance with Clause (1)(a) shall be controlled by carbon monoxide monitoring devices, and systems provided in accordance with Clause (1)(b) shall be controlled by nitrogen dioxide or other acceptable monitoring devices. (See Note A-6.3.1.4.(2).)
3) Mechanical ventilation systems provided in accordance with Sentence (1) shall be designed such that the pressure in the storage garage is less than the pressure in adjoining buildings of other occupancy, or in adjacent portions of the same building having a different occupancy.
4) In storage garages subject to the requirements of Sentences (1) and (2), where motor vehicles are parked by mechanical means, the ventilation requirements may be reduced by one half.
5) Except as provided in Sentence (6), ticket and attendant booths of storage garages shall be pressurized with a supply of uncontaminated air.
6) The requirements of Sentences (1) to (5) shall not apply to open-air storeys in a storage garage.
Heat Recovery Ventilators
1) Heat recovery ventilators with rated capacities of not less than 25 L/s and not
more than 200 L/s shall be installed in accordance with Subsection 9.32.3.
Indoor Air Contaminants
(See Note A-6.3.1.6.)
1) Air contaminants of concern that are released within buildings shall
a) be removed insofar as is possible at their points of origin, and
b) not be permitted to accumulate in concentrations greater than those
permitted by applicable provincial or territorial requirements or, in the absence of such requirements, by good engineering practice such as that described in the publications listed in Sentence 6.2.1.1.(1), measured using the methodology described therein.
2) Systems serving spaces that contain sources of contamination and systems serving other occupied parts of the building but located in or running through spaces that contain sources of contamination shall be designed in such a manner as to prevent the spread of such contamination to other occupied parts of the building.
3) Heating, ventilating and air-conditioning systems shall be designed to minimize the growth and spread of bio-contaminants.
Cooking Equipment
1) Systems for the ventilation of commercial cooking equipment shall be designed, constructed and installed to conform to NFPA 96, “Ventilation Control and Fire Protection of Commercial Cooking Operations.”
2) A range, a cooktop and a residential-type oven shall be equipped with a hood conforming to Sentence 6.3.1.8.(16).
6.3.1.5.
6.3.1.6.
6.3.1.7.
6-4 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
6.3.1.8.
6.3.1.8.
Dwelling Units
1) This Article applies to the ventilation of
a) dwelling units,
b) corridors serving dwelling units, and
c) a stairwell to which doors of dwelling units open directly.
2) Ventilation of all other occupancies, rooms and spaces of residential occupancies and care occupancies shall conform to Part 6.
3) Self-contained mechanical ventilation systems that serve only one dwelling unit and that conform to Subsection 9.32.3., except Clause 9.32.3.3.(2)(b) where the building is not covered by Part 11, are deemed to conform to this Article.
4) Except as permitted by Sentence (19), dwelling units, corridors and stairwells covered by Sentence 3.3.4.4.(5) or Clause 9.9.9.3.(1)(a) shall be mechanically ventilated.
5) Mechanical ventilation systems of dwelling units shall include
a) a principal ventilation system (see Note A-6.3.1.8.(5)(a)), and
b) at least one supplemental exhaust fan.
6) The principal ventilation system of dwelling units must ensure
a) the supply of makeup air for the main ventilation system and supplemental
exhaust fans (see Note A-6.3.1.8.(6)(a)),
b) air circulation in all occupied rooms in the dwelling unit (see
Note A-6.3.1.8.(6)(b)), and
c) for ventilation systems not used in conjunction with forced air heating
systems, maintenance of a relative indoor humidity level of 25–50% corresponding to a temperature of 22°C in dwelling units during the heating season.
7) The principal ventilation system of dwelling units shall include
a) at least one exhaust air outlet located inside the dwelling unit,
b) air outlets that allow the introduction of outdoor air to the dwelling unit, and
c) elements or devices inside the dwelling unit to ensure conformity with this
Article (see Note A-6.3.1.8.(7)(c)).
8) The principal ventilation fan of buildings having a building area not more than 600 m2, a building height not more than 3 storeys, and whose major occupancy is Group C housing dwelling units only, shall be a heat recovery ventilator (HRV)
a) having sensible heat recovery efficiency certified by AHRI, Intertek Testing Services NA Ltd. or Element Materials Technology Canada Inc. according to ANSI/AHRI 1060, “Performance Rating of Air-to-Air Exchangers for Energy Recovery Ventilation Equipment,” or ANSI/AHRI 1061, “Performance Rating of Air-to-Air Exchangers for Energy Recovery Ventilation,” or by HVI or another certification body accredited by the Standards Council of Canada according to CAN/CSA-C439, “Standard Laboratory Methods of Test for Rating the Performance of Heat/Energy-Recovery Ventilators,”
b) having sensible heat recovery efficiency (SRE) of at least 54% for a building located in a municipality whose number of degree-days below 18°C is less than 6000 and of 60% for a building located in another municipality,
c) having sensible heat recovery efficiency determined at a dry temperature of 1.7°C for appliances certified by AHRI, Intertek Testing Services NA Ltd. or Element Materials Technology Canada Inc., or −25°C for appliances certified by HVI or another certification body accredited by the Standards Council of Canada (see Note A-6.3.1.8.(8)(c)), and
d) whose operating and de-icing cycles do not generate air circulation between the dwelling units.
9) Measures shall be taken to protect against depressurisation in dwelling units. (See Note A-6.3.1.8.(9).)
10) The principal ventilation system of the dwelling unit shall have the exhaust capacity indicated in Table 9.32.3.3.
11) Fans installed in dwelling units shall conform to Article 9.32.3.10.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 6-5
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 6.3.2.1.
Division B
6.3.2. 6.3.2.1.
6.3.2.2.
6.3.2.3.
12) The outdoor air supply system of the dwelling unit shall be capable of operating at plus or minus 10% of the exhaust capacity indicated in Table 9.32.3.3. for that dwelling unit.
13) The exhaust air intakes and air supply outlets of the principal ventilation system of a dwelling unit not used in conjunction with forced air heating systems shall be designed and installed to promote air diffusion at the ceiling level.
14) For ventilation systems not used in conjunction with forced air heating systems, air shall flow to air supply outlets at a temperature of at least 12°C during the heating season.
15) Air shall be supplied into dwelling units by a system of trunk and branch supply ducts that conform to the requirements of Sentences 9.32.3.5.(10) and (11).
16) A range hood with a rated capacity not less than 50 L/s shall be installed in the kitchen and be connected to an exhaust duct in conformance with Article 6.3.2.10.
17) Each bathroom and each washroom shall be
a) served by a manually controlled exhaust supplemental fan installed in the
bathroom or washroom and having a rated capacity not less than 25 L/s, or
b) equipped with an exhaust air intake of the principal ventilation system of the dwelling unit enabling an exhaust capacity not less than 25 L/s using a
manual control located in the bathroom or washroom.
(See Note A-6.3.1.8.(17).)
18) Except as permitted in Sentence (19), corridors and stairways covered by Sentence (4) shall
a) be ventilated mechanically with an outdoor air supply system at a minimal air exchange rate of 0.3 per hour so as to maintain pressure above that within dwelling units, and
b) not be used as an air supply plenum for dwelling units.
(See Note A-6.3.1.8.(18).)
19) A stairwell may be ventilated naturally by not less than one window that is
a) accessible,
b) capable of being opened and whose clear space for ventilation is equal to
not less than 5% of the area of the lowest floor of the stairwell multiplied by
the number of storeys of the stairwell, and
c) located above the highest floor level.
Air Duct Systems Application
1) This Subsection applies to the design, construction and installation of air duct distribution systems serving heating, ventilating and air-conditioning systems other than those in dwelling units covered by Part 9.
Drain Pans
1) Dehumidifying cooling coil assemblies and condensate-producing heat exchangers shall be equipped with drain pans beneath them that are
a) designed in accordance with Section 5.11, Drain Pans, of ANSI/ASHRAE 62.1, “Ventilation for Acceptable Indoor Air Quality,”
b) provided with an outlet that is piped to the outside of the airstream in a location where condensate can be eliminated, and
c) installed so that water drains freely from the pan.
Materials in Air Duct Systems
1) All ducts, duct connectors, associated fittings and plenums used in air duct
systems shall be constructed of materials as described in Article 3.6.5.1.
2) Ducts that are used in a location where they may be subjected to excessive moisture shall have no appreciable loss of strength when wet and shall be resistant to moisture-induced corrosion.
6-6 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
  © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 6.3.2.9.
6.3.2.4.
6.3.2.5.
6.3.2.6.
6.3.2.7.
3) All ductwork and fittings shall be constructed and installed as recommended in SMACNA Manuals and ASHRAE Standards.
4) All duct materials shall be suitable for exposure to the temperature and humidity of the air being carried and shall be resistant to corrosion caused by contaminants in the air being conveyed in the duct.
Connections in Air Duct Systems
1) Air duct systems shall have tight-fitting connections throughout.
Duct Coverings and Linings
(See Note A-6.3.2.5.)
1) Coverings, linings and associated adhesives and insulation used in air ducts, plenums and other parts of air duct systems shall comply with Article 3.6.5.4.
2) Duct linings shall be installed so that they will not interfere with the operation of volume or balancing dampers or of fire dampers, fire stop flaps and other closures.
Clearance of Ducts and Plenums
1) The clearance of ducts and plenums from combustible materials shall comply
with Article 3.6.5.6.
Interconnection of Systems
1) In a care or residential occupancy, air from one suite shall not be circulated to any
other suite or to a public corridor.
2) Except as permitted by Sentences (3) and 6.3.2.10.(6), air duct systems serving
storage garages shall not be directly interconnected with other parts of the building.
3) Exhaust ducts referred to in Sentence 6.3.2.10.(10) are permitted to exhaust through an enclosed storage garage prior to exhausting to the outdoors, provided
a) the storage garage’s exhaust system runs continuously,
b) the capacity of the storage garage’s exhaust system is equal to or exceeds the
volume of the exhaust entering the garage, and
c) a leakage rate 1 smoke/fire damper rated in accordance with
CAN/ULC-S112.1, “Leakage Rated Dampers for Use in Smoke Control Systems,” is provided near the duct outlet location in the storage garage to prevent air from the storage garage from entering the exhaust ductwork system in the event the building’s exhaust fan is shut down.
Makeup Air
(See Note A-6.2.1.1.)
1) In ventilating systems that exhaust air to the outdoors, provision shall be made for the admission of a supply of makeup air in sufficient quantity so that the operation of the exhaust system and other exhaust equipment or combustion equipment is not adversely affected.
2) Makeup air facilities required by Sentence (1) shall be interlocked with the exhaust devices they serve so that both operate together.
3) Where makeup air facilities are intended to introduce air directly from the outdoors to occupied parts of the building in winter, they shall incorporate means of tempering that air to maintain the indoor design temperature.
Supply, Return, Intake and Exhaust Air Openings
1) Supply, return and exhaust air openings located less than 2 m above the floor in rooms or spaces in buildings shall be protected by grilles having openings of a size that will not allow the passage of a 15 mm diam sphere.
6.3.2.8.
6.3.2.9.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 6-7
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 6.3.2.10.
Division B
6.3.2.10.
6-8 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
2) Outdoor air intakes shall be located so that
a) the quality of the air entering the building complies with Sentence 6.2.1.2.(2),
and
b) they are separated a minimum distance from sources of contaminants in
accordance with Table 6.3.2.9.
Table 6.3.2.9.
Minimum Distances of Air Intakes from Sources of Contaminants Forming Part of Sentence 6.3.2.9.(2)
Source of Contaminants
Garage entry of a garage for 5 or more motor vehicles, automobile loading area and drive-in queue
Truck loading area or dock, and bus parking
Driveway, street, and parking space
Thoroughfare, arterial road, freeway, and highway
Garbage storage/pick-up area and dumpsters
Discharge from evaporative cooling tower, evaporative fluid cooler and evaporative condenser
Sanitary vent
Kitchen cooking exhaust Vent for combustion products
Minimum Distance of Outdoor Air Intake, m
4.5
7.6 1.5 7.6 4.5 7.6
3.5 3.0 3.0
Outdoor air intakes shall be installed not less than 0.3 m above roofs, landscape grades or other surfaces, taking into account anticipated snow accumulation levels.
4) Exterior openings for outdoor air intakes and exhaust outlets shall be shielded from the entry of snow and rain and shall be fitted with corrosion-resistant screens of mesh having openings not larger than 15 mm, except where experience has shown that climatic conditions require larger openings to prevent the screen openings from icing over.
5) Screens required in Sentence (4) shall be accessible for maintenance.
6) Combustible grilles, diffusers and other devices covering supply, return, intake
and exhaust openings shall comply with Article 3.6.5.7.
Exhaust Ducts and Outlets
1) Except as provided in Sentence (2), exhaust ducts of non-mechanical ventilating
systems serving separate rooms or spaces shall not be combined.
2) Exhaust ducts of non-mechanical ventilating systems serving similar occupancies may be combined immediately below the point of final delivery to the outdoors, such as at the base of a roof ventilator.
3) Exhaust ducts of ventilating systems shall have provision for the removal of condensation where this may be a problem.
4) Exhaust outlets shall be designed to prevent backdraft under wind conditions.
5) Except as permitted in Sentence (6), exhaust systems shall discharge directly to
the outdoors. (See Note A-6.3.2.10.(5) and (6).)
6) Exhaust systems are permitted to exhaust into a storage garage, provided
a) they serve rooms that are accessible only from that storage garage,
b) the exhaust contains no contaminants that would adversely affect the air
quality in the storage garage (see Note A-6.3.2.10.(6)(b)), and
c) they are designed in accordance with Sentence 6.3.2.7.(3).
(See Note A-6.3.2.10.(5) and (6).)
3)
     © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
6.3.2.12.
6.3.2.11.
6.3.2.12.
(See Note A-6.3.2.10.(7) and (8).)
8) Where collective venting of multiple installations of laundry-drying equipment is used, the ventilation system shall
a) be connected to a common exhaust duct that is vented by one central exhaust fan and incorporates one central lint trap,
b) include an interlock to activate the central exhaust fan when laundry-drying equipment is in use, and
c) be provided with make-up air.
(See Note A-6.3.2.10.(7) and (8).)
9) Exhaust ducts or vents connected to laundry-drying equipment shall discharge directly to the outdoors.
10) Except as provided in Sentence (12) and except for self-contained systems serving individual dwelling units, exhaust ducts serving rooms containing water closets, urinals, basins, showers or slop sinks shall be independent of other exhaust ducts.
11) Except as provided in Sentence (12) and except for self-contained systems serving individual dwelling units, exhaust ducts serving rooms containing residential cooking equipment shall be independent of other exhaust ducts.
12) Two or more exhaust systems described in Sentences (10) and (11) may be interconnected or connected with exhaust ducts serving other areas of the building, provided
a) the connections are made at the inlet of an exhaust fan, and all interconnected systems are equipped with suitable back pressure devices to prevent the passage of odours from one system to another when the fan is not in operation, or
b) the exhaust ducts discharge to a shaft that is served by an exhaust fan having a capacity that is equal to or greater than the combined capacity of the exhaust fans discharging to the plenum multiplied by the operation diversity factor, provided that the exhaust fan serving the shaft operates continuously (see Note A-6.3.2.10.(12)(b)).
13) Where exhaust ducts containing air from conditioned spaces pass through or are adjacent to unconditioned spaces, the ducts shall be constructed to prevent condensation from forming on the inside or outside of the ducts.
Return-Air System
1) Return-air systems shall comply with Article 3.6.5.8.
2) Where a ceiling space is used as a return-air plenum, the requirements of
Article 3.6.4.3. shall apply.
3) A public corridor or exit shall not be used as a return-air plenum. Underground Ducts
1) Underground ducts shall
a) be constructed and installed to provide interior drainage from and access
to all low points,
b) not be connected directly to a sewer, and
c) be installed and constructed of materials recommended by ASHRAE and SMACNA Standards and HRAI Manuals.
2) A clean-out or pump-out connection shall be provided in an underground duct system at every low point of the duct system.
7)
a) b) c)
Exhaust ducts connected to laundry-drying equipment shall be independent of other exhaust ducts,
accessible for inspection and cleaning, and
constructed of a smooth corrosion-resistant material.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 6-9
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 6.3.2.13.
Division B
6.3.2.13.
6.3.2.14.
6.3.2.15.
Filters
1) Air filters for air duct systems shall conform to the requirements for Class 2 air
filter units as described in CAN/ULC-S111, “Fire Tests for Air Filter Units.”
2) When electrostatic-type filters are used, they shall be installed so as to ensure that the electric circuit is automatically de-energized when filter access doors are opened or, in dwelling units, when the furnace circulation fan is not operating.
Cleaning Devices
1) Where outdoor air quality conditions do not meet the requirements of Sentence 6.2.1.2.(2), ventilation required by Sentence 6.3.1.1.(1) shall be provided by a ventilation system designed to include devices that reduce particles and gases to the maximum acceptable levels described in Sentence 6.2.1.2.(2) prior to the introduction of outdoor air to indoor occupied spaces.
Evaporative Cooling Towers, Evaporative Fluid Coolers and Evaporative Condensers
1) Discharge from evaporative cooling towers to ventilation air intakes shall comply with
a) Sentence 6.3.2.9.(2), and
b) CAN/CSA-Z317.2, “Special Requirements for Heating, Ventilation, and
Air-Conditioning (HVAC) Systems in Health Care Facilities.”
2) The distance between the air intakes of evaporative cooling towers, evaporative fluid coolers and evaporative condensers in relation to kitchen exhaust outlets, vegetation or other sources of organic matter shall be not less than 4.6 m.
3) Deleted.
4) Water treatment equipment for biological growth control shall be provided in accordance with Sub-Section 7.6.2. of ASHRAE Guideline 12, “Minimizing the Risk of Legionellosis Associated with Building Water Systems.”
5) Drains, overflows and blow-downs shall be connected to the building’s drainage system in accordance with the requirements in the NPC.
6) Evaporative cooling towers, evaporative fluid coolers and evaporative condensers shall be provided with access ports, service platforms, fixed ladders and restraint connections to allow visual inspection, maintenance and testing.
Evaporative Air Coolers, Misters, Atomizers, Air Washers and Humidifiers
1) The filter and water evaporation medium of every air washer and evaporative air cooler enclosed within a building shall be made of noncombustible material.
2) Sumps for air washers and evaporative air coolers shall be constructed and installed so that they can be flushed and drained.
3) Evaporative air coolers, misters, atomizers, air washers and humidifiers shall be designed in accordance with Sections 8 and 9 of ASHRAE Guideline 12, “Minimizing the Risk of Legionellosis Associated with Building Water Systems.”
Fans and Associated Air-Handling Equipment
1) Fans for heating, ventilating and air-conditioning systems shall be located and installed so that their operation
6.3.2.16.
6.3.2.17.
6-10 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
a) b)
does not adversely affect the draft required for proper operation of fuel-fired appliances, and
does not allow the air in the duct system to be contaminated by air or gases from the boiler room or furnace room.
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 6.3.4.1.
6.3.2.18.
6.3.2.19.
6.3.3. 6.3.3.1.
2) Fans and associated air-handling equipment, such as air washers, filters and heating and cooling units shall be
a) of a type of designed for outdoor use, when installed on the roof or elsewhere outside the building, and
b) equipped with a nameplate of a contrasting colour that is easily accessible and that indicates the features of the equipment.
Vibration Isolation Connectors
1) Vibration isolation connectors in air duct systems shall comply with
Article 3.6.5.2.
Tape
1) Tape used for sealing joints in air ducts, plenums and other parts of air duct
systems shall comply with Article 3.6.5.3.
Chimneys and Venting Equipment Requirement for Venting
1) Except as provided in Articles 6.3.3.2. and 6.3.3.3., the products of combustion from oil-, gas- and solid-fuel-burning appliances shall be vented in conformance with the requirements in the applicable appliance installation standard listed in Article 6.2.1.5.
2) Except as provided in Article 6.2.1.5., vented products of combustion, other than those referred to in Sentence (1), shall be discharged away from the building, so as not to re-enter it, to a distance not less than
a) 2.15 m above sidewalks and driveways,
b) 3 m from outdoor air intakes,
c) 3 m horizontally or vertically from doors and operable windows, and
d) 3 m horizontally or vertically from occupiable outdoor spaces, excluding
maintenance spaces.
(See Note A-6.3.3.1.(2).)
Masonry or Concrete Chimneys
1) Rectangular masonry or concrete chimneys not more than 12 m in height shall conform to Part 9 if they serve
a) appliances with a combined total rated heat output of 120 kW or less, or
b) fireplaces.
2) Masonry or concrete chimneys other than those described in Sentence (1) shall be designed and installed in conformance with the appropriate requirements in NFPA 211, “Chimneys, Fireplaces, Vents, and Solid Fuel-Burning Appliances.”
Metal Smoke Stacks
1) Single wall metal smoke stacks shall be designed and installed in conformance
with NFPA 211, “Chimneys, Fireplaces, Vents, and Solid Fuel-Burning Appliances.”
Access Ladders
1) Access ladders for chimneys, when provided, shall consist of steel or bronze
rungs, built into the walls of the chimneys.
2) Rungs for external ladders shall begin at not less than 2.5 m from ground level.
Ventilation for Laboratories Application
1) This Subsection applies to laboratories where dangerous goods, including flammable liquids and combustible liquids, are used in normal laboratory operations in quantities or in a manner that creates a fire or explosion hazard.
6.3.3.2.
6.3.3.3.
6.3.3.4.
6.3.4. 6.3.4.1.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 6-11
  © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 6.3.4.2.
Division B
6.3.4.2.
General Ventilation
1) A laboratory shall be provided with continuous mechanical ventilation designed to ensure that dangerous goods vapours and particles
a) do not accumulate in the laboratory,
b) are prevented from migrating to other parts of the building,
c) do not accumulate in the ventilation system,
d) are exhausted to the outdoors, and
e) are not returned to the building.
2) A ventilation system required by this Subsection shall be provided with monitoring devices to
a) indicate that the ventilation system is in operation, and
b) sound an alarm if the ventilation system is malfunctioning.
Enclosure Exhaust Ventilation
1) The ventilation system for a power-ventilated enclosure required by Sentence 5.5.4.2.(1) of Division B of the NFC shall
a) conform to NFPA 45, “Fire Protection for Laboratories Using Chemicals,”
b) provide continuous exhaust ventilation at an air velocity sufficient
to prevent the accumulation of combustible or reactive deposits in the
power-ventilated enclosure and its exhaust duct system,
c) confine dangerous goods vapours and particles to the area where they are
generated and exhaust them to the outdoors,
d) not return the exhausted air to the building, and
e) be provided with well identified control switches that are
i) locatedoutsideofthepower-ventilatedenclosure,and
ii) readilyaccessibleincaseofanemergency.
2) Where an accumulation of combustible or reactive deposits in the power-ventilated enclosures and its exhaust duct system creates a fire or explosion hazard
a) measures shall be taken to remove the deposits, and
b) an automatic fire suppression system shall be installed.
Enclosure Construction
1) The power-ventilated enclosure required by Sentence 5.5.4.2.(1) of Division B of the NFC and its exhaust duct system shall
a) except as provided in Sentences (2) and (3), be constructed of noncombustible materials compatible with and chemically resistant to the dangerous goods vapours and particles being exhausted,
b) be provided with access doors to permit inspection and maintenance of the fan assembly and exhaust ducts,
c) be delivered with the necessary instructions for their use and operation of the ventilation system, and
d) include the means to neutralize accidental spills.
2) Combustible materials are permitted in systems described in Clause (1)(a) if
a) such materials are required by the corrosive or reactive properties of the
dangerous goods being used, and
b) their flame-spread rating is not more than 25.
3) The flame-spread rating required by Sentence (2) is permitted to be greater than 25 if an automatic fire suppression system is provided inside the power-ventilated enclosure and its exhaust duct system.
6.3.4.3.
6.3.4.4.
6-12 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 6.6.1.1.
Section 6.4. Heating Systems
6.4.1. 6.4.1.1.
6.4.1.2.
6.4.2. 6.4.2.1.
6.4.3. 6.4.3.1.
Heating Appliances, General Location of Appliances
1) Except for appliances installed in dwelling units, fuel-fired heating appliances shall be located, enclosed or separated from the remainder of the building in conformance with Section 3.6. (See also Subsection 9.10.10.)
Appliances Installed Outside the Building
1) Fuel-fired appliances installed outside a building shall be designed and
constructed for outdoor use.
Unit Heaters Clearances
1) Every unit heater using either steam or hot water as the heating medium shall be installed such that the clearances between the appliance and adjacent combustible material conform to Table 6.7.1.2.
Radiators and Convectors Lining or Backing
1) A noncombustible lining or backing shall be provided for every steam or hot water radiator and convector
a) located in a recess or concealed space, or
b) attached to the face of a wall of combustible construction.
2) Every steam or hot water radiator and convector shall be installed so as to conform to the clearance requirements of Table 6.7.1.2.
Section 6.5. Thermal Insulation Systems
6.5.1. Insulation
6.5.1.1. Insulation and Coverings
(See Note A-6.3.2.5.)
1) Insulation and coverings on pipes shall comply with Article 3.6.5.5.
2) Insulation and coverings on pipes shall be composed of material that will
withstand deterioration from softening, melting, mildew and mould at the operating temperature of the system.
3) Exposed piping or equipment subject to human contact shall be insulated so that the temperature of the exposed surface does not exceed 70°C. (See Note A-6.5.1.1.(3).)
Section 6.6. Refrigeration and Cooling Systems
6.6.1. Refrigerating Systems and Equipment for Air-conditioning 6.6.1.1. Cooling Units
1) Where a cooling unit is combined with a fuel-fired furnace in the same duct system, the cooling unit shall be installed
a) in parallel with the heating furnace,
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 6-13
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 6.7.1.1.
Division B
6.7.1.2.
6.7.1.3.
6.7.1.4.
6.7.1.5.
6.7.2. 6.7.2.1.
1) The exposed surface temperature of a steam or hot water radiator shall not exceed 70°C unless precautions are taken to prevent human contact. (See Note A-6.5.1.1.(3).)
Protection
1) Where a pipe carrying steam or hot water at a temperature above 120°C passes through a combustible floor, ceiling or wall, the construction shall be protected by a sleeve of metal or other noncombustible material not less than 50 mm larger in diameter than the pipe.
Piping in Shafts
1) Where piping for heating or air-conditioning systems is enclosed in a shaft, the
requirements of Article 3.6.3.1. for shafts shall apply.
Storage Bins Storage Bins
1) Service pipes passing through a storage bin for solid fuel shall be protected or so located as to avoid damage to the pipes.
6-14 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
b) c)
upstream of the furnace provided the furnace is designed for such application, or
downstream of the furnace provided the cooling unit is designed to prevent excessive temperature or pressure in the refrigeration system.
Section 6.7. Piping Systems
6.7.1. 6.7.1.1.
Piping for Heating and Cooling Systems Piping Materials and Installation
1) Piping shall be made from materials designed to withstand the effects of temperatures and pressures that may occur in the system. (See Articles 3.1.5.19., 3.1.9.1., 9.10.9.6. and 9.10.9.7. for fire safety requirements.)
2) Every pipe used in a heating or air-conditioning system shall be installed to allow for expansion and contraction due to temperature changes.
3) Supports and anchors for piping in a heating or air-conditioning system shall be designed and installed to ensure that undue stress is not placed on the supporting structure.
Clearances
1) Clearances between combustible material and bare pipes carrying steam or hot
water shall conform to Table 6.7.1.2.
Table 6.7.1.2.
Clearance Between Steam or Hot Water Pipes and Combustible Material Forming Part of Articles 6.4.2.1. and 6.7.1.2., and Sentence 6.4.3.1.(2)
Steam or Water Temperature, °C
Up to 95 Above 95 to 120 Above 120
Surface Temperature
Minimum Clearance, mm
No clearance 15
25
   © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 6.9.1.2.
2) Except for fuel-thawing pipes, every pipe designed to operate at a temperature of 50°C or above shall be located where solid fuel cannot be stored in contact with it.
Section 6.8. Equipment Access
6.8.1. 6.8.1.1.
6.8.1.2.
6.8.1.3.
Openings Access Openings
1) Any covering of an access opening through which a person could enter shall be openable from the inside without the use of keys where there is a possibility of the opening being accidentally closed while the system or equipment is being serviced.
Openings in Air Duct Systems
1) Air duct systems shall have no openings other than those required for the
proper operation and maintenance of the system.
2) Access openings shall be provided in duct systems to allow the removal of
material that may accumulate in plenums and ducts. Odour Removal Equipment
1) When odour removal equipment of the adsorption type is used, it shall be
a) installed to allow access so that adsorption material can be reactivated or
renewed, and
b) protected from dust accumulation by air filters installed on the inlet side.
2) Facilities for flushing and drainage shall be provided where filters are designed to be washed in place.
Section 6.9. Fire Safety Systems
6.9.1. 6.9.1.1.
General
Fire Safety Requirements
1) The fire safety characteristics of heating, ventilating and air-conditioning systems shall comply with Subsection 3.6.5.
2) Characteristics referred to in Sentence (1) include but are not limited to
a) use of combustible materials in duct systems,
b) flame-spread ratings and smoke-developed ratings of duct and pipe materials
and coverings,
c) installation of equipment relative to property lines, and
d) requirements for fire dampers and fire stop flaps.
Hazardous Gases, Dusts or Liquids
1) Except as provided in Subsection 6.3.4., systems serving spaces that contain hazardous gases, dusts or liquids shall be designed, constructed and installed to conform to the requirements of the applicable provincial or territorial regulations or municipal bylaws or, in the absence of such regulations or bylaws, to good engineering practice such as that described in the publications of the National Fire Protection Association and in the NFC. (See Note A-6.9.1.2.(1).)
2) When indoor piping for Class I flammable liquids is installed in a trench, the trench shall be
a) provided with positive ventilation to the outdoors, or
b) designed to prevent the accumulation of flammable vapours.
6.9.1.2.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 6-15
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 6.9.1.3.
Division B
6.9.1.3.
6.9.2. 6.9.2.1.
6.9.2.2.
6.9.2.3.
6.9.2.4.
6.9.3. 6.9.3.1.
Commercial Cooking Equipment
1) Fire protection systems for commercial cooking equipment referred to in Sentence 6.3.1.7.(1) using vegetable oil or animal fat shall conform to
a) ANSI/UL 300, “Fire Testing of Fire Extinguishing Systems for Protection of Commercial Cooking Equipment,” or
b) ULC/ORD-C1254.6, “Fire Testing of Restaurant Cooking Area Fire Extinguishing System Units.”
Dampers and Ductwork Fire Dampers
1) Fire dampers shall conform to Article 3.1.8.10. Smoke Detectors
1) Air handling systems shall incorporate smoke detectors where and as required by Article 3.2.4.12.
Exhaust Ducts and Outlets
1) Where an exhaust duct system is used for smoke removal in a high building, the
requirements of Article 3.2.6.6. shall apply.
2) Where exhaust duct systems from more than one fire compartment are connected to an exhaust duct in a vertical service space, the requirements of Article 3.6.3.4. shall apply.
Ducts in Exits
1) Where ducts penetrate fire separations separating exits from the remainder of the
building, they shall be in accordance with Article 3.4.4.4. Carbon Monoxide Alarms
Carbon Monoxide Alarms
1) This Article applies to every building that contains a residential occupancy, a care occupancy with dwelling units, or a care occupancy containing sleeping rooms not within a dwelling unit, and that also contains
a) a fuel-burning appliance, or b) a storage garage.
2) Carbon monoxide (CO) alarms required by this Article shall
a) conform to CAN/CSA-6.19, “Residential Carbon Monoxide Alarming
Devices,”
b) be equipped with an integral alarm that satisfies the audibility requirements
of CAN/CSA-6.19, “Residential Carbon Monoxide Alarming Devices,” c) have no disconnect switch between the overcurrent device and the CO alarm, where the CO alarm is powered by the electrical system serving
the suite (see Note A-6.9.3.1.(2)(c)),
d) be mechanically fixed at a height above the floor as recommended by the
manufacturer, and
e) in case the regular power supply is interrupted, be provided with a battery
as an alternative power source.
3) Where a fuel-burning appliance is installed in a suite of residential occupancy or in a dwelling unit of care occupancy, a CO alarm shall be installed
6-16 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
a) b)
inside each bedroom, or
outside each bedroom, within 5 m of each bedroom door, measured following corridors and doorways.
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 6.10.1.1.
6.9.4. 6.9.4.1.
6.9.4.2.
4) Where a fuel-burning appliance is installed in a service room that is not in a suite of residential occupancy or in a dwelling unit of care occupancy, a CO alarm shall be installed
a) either inside each bedroom, or if outside, within 5 m of each bedroom door, measured following corridors and doorways, in every suite of residential occupancy or dwelling unit of care occupancy that shares a wall or floor/ceiling assembly with the service room, and
b) in the service room.
5) For each suite of residential occupancy or dwelling unit of care occupancy that shares a wall or floor/ceiling assembly with a storage garage or that is adjacent to an attic or crawl space to which the storage garage is also adjacent, a CO alarm shall be installed
a) inside each bedroom, or
b) outside each bedroom, within 5 m of each bedroom door, measured
following corridors and doorways.
Ash Storage
Ash Storage Bins
1) Every ash storage bin shall be constructed of noncombustible material.
2) Every opening in an ash storage bin shall be protected by a tight-fitting metal
door with metal frame securely fastened to the bin.
Fireplaces
1) Fireplaces shall conform to the requirements of Section 9.22.
2) The installation of open fireplaces in care occupancies is not permitted.
Section 6.10. Objectives and Functional Statements
6.10.1. Objectives and Functional Statements 6.10.1.1. Attributions to Acceptable Solutions
1) For the purpose of compliance with this Code as required in
Clause 1.2.1.1.(1)(b) of Division A, the objectives and functional statements attributed to the acceptable solutions in this Part shall be the objectives and functional statements listed in Table 6.10.1.1. (See Note A-1.1.2.1.(1).)
Table 6.10.1.1.
Objectives and Functional Statements Attributed to the Acceptable Solutions in Part 6
Forming Part of Sentence 6.10.1.1.(1)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
6.2.1.1. Good Engineering Practice
(1) (a) to (e) [F31,F51-OP1.1]
(a) to (c) and (e) to (i) [F40,F50,F51,F52,F54,F63-OH1.1] (a),(b),(c),(e),(f),(g),(h) [F50,F51,F52,F54,F63-OH1.2,OH1.3] [F31,F50,F51,F52,F54,F63-OS3.2,OS3.4]
(d) [F01-OS1.1]
6.2.1.2. Outdoor Design Conditions
(2) [F40,F50-OH1.1]
6.2.1.3. Expansion, Contraction and System Pressure
(1) [F20-OS3.2]
Table 6.10.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
6.2.1.4. Structural Movement
(1) [F23-OS3.1] [F51,F63,F50-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
6.2.1.5. Installation Standards
(1) [F43-OS1.1] [F43-OS3.4] [F43-OP1.1]
6.2.1.6. Installation – General
(1) [F82-OS1.1] [F82-OS3.4] [F82-OP1.1]
(2) [F31-OS3.1]
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Amended Page
Division B 6-17
                          © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 6.10.1.1.
Division B
Table 6.10.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
(3) [F81-OS3.2,OS3.3,OS3.4] [F81-OS1.1]
6.2.1.7. Asbestos
(1) [F43-OH1.1]
6.2.2.1. Applicable Standard
(1) [F81-OS1.1]
6.2.3.1. Solid Fuel Storage Bins
(1) [F30-OH2.1]
(2) [F01-OS1.1] [F01-OP1.1]
6.3.1.1. Required Ventilation
(1) [F50,F31,F63,F51,F54,F52-OS1.1] [F50,F31,F63,F51,F54,F52-OP1.1]
(2) [F50-OH1.1]
6.3.1.2. Crawl Spaces and Attic or Roof Spaces
(1) [F61,F63,F41-OH1.1,OH1.3]
6.3.1.3. Natural Ventilation
(1) [F50-OH1.1]
(2) [F50-OH1.1]
6.3.1.4. Ventilation of Storage Garages
(1) [F50,F44-OS3.4]
(2) [F44-OS3.4]
(3) [F44-OS3.4]
(4) [F50,F44-OS3.4]
(5) [F50,F44-OH1.1]
[F50,F44-OS3.4]
6.3.1.6. Indoor Air Contaminants
Table 6.10.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
(10) [F40,F50,F52,F53-OH1.1] [F51,F52-OH1.2] [F43,F50,F53-OS3.4]
(11) [F40,F50,F52,F53,F81-OH1.1] [F51,F52,F53,F81-OH1.2] [F53,F63-OS2.3]
[F53,F81-OS3.4] (12) [F53,F63-OS2.3]
(13) [F40-OH1.1] [F51,F54-OH1.2] (14) [F51,F54-OH1.2]
(15) [F40,F50,F52-OH1.1]
(16) [F40,F52-OH1.1]
(17) [F40,F52-OH1.1]
(18) [F40,F50,F52-OH1.1] [F51,F52-OH1.2]
[F40,F50,F53-OS3.4]
6.3.2.1. Required Ventilation
(3) [F82-OH1.1]
6.3.2.2. Drain Pans
(1) [F41,F44,F50-OH1.1]
6.3.2.3. Materials in Air Duct Systems
(2) [F20,F80-OH1.1,OH1.2]
(3) [F81,F44-OS3.4]
[F81-OH1.1]
(4) [F20,F80-OH1.1,OH1.2]
6.3.2.4. Connections in Air Duct Systems (1) [F81-OH1.1,OH1.2]
[F81,F44-OS3.4]
6.3.2.5. Duct Coverings and Linings
(1) [F44-OS3.4] [F44-OH1.1]
(2) [F44-OH1.1]
(3) [F52-OH1.1]
6.3.1.7. Cooking Equipment
(1) [F01,F44-OS1.1] [F01,F44-OP1.1] 6.3.1.8. Dwelling Units
(4) [F40,F50,F52-OH1.1] [F40,F50,F53-OS3.4]
(5) [F40,F50,F52-OH1.1]
(6) [F40,F50,F52-OH1.1]
(7) [F40,F50,F52-OH1.1]
(8) [F98-OE1.1]
(9) [F81-OH1.1]
[F51,F52-OH1.2]
[F51,F52-OH1.2] [F51,F52-OH1.2] [F51,F52-OH1.2]
6.3.2.7. Interconnection of Systems
(1) [F44-OS1.1] [F40-OH1.1]
(2) [F81,F44-OH1.1] [F81,F44-OS1.1] [F81,F44-OP1.1]
(3) [F81,F44-OH1.1]
6.3.2.8. Makeup Air
(1) [F50,F81-OH1.1] [F44,F81-OS3.4]
(2) [F81-OH1.1] [F81,F44-OS3.4]
(3) [F81-OH1.2]
6-18 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
(2)
[F81-OH1.1,OH1.2] [F81-OS1.1] [F81-OP1.1]
                                                                                        © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
6.10.1.1.
Table 6.10.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
6.3.2.9. Supply, Return, Intake and Exhaust Air Openings
(1) [F30-OS3.1] [F81-OH1.2]
(2) [F81-OH1.1]
[F81,F44-OS3.4]
[F41,F44-OH1.1]
(3) [F44,F81-OH1.1] [F44,F81-OS3.4]
(4) [F81-OH1.1]
(5) [F82,F81-OH1.1]
[F82-OS3.4]
6.3.2.10. Exhaust Ducts and Outlets
(1) [F44-OH1.1]
(2) [F44-OH1.1]
(3) [F81-OH1.1]
[F81-OH1.2]
(4) [F81-OH1.1] [F81-OH1.2]
(5) [F81-OH1.1]
(6) [F81-OH1.1]
(7) [F81-OS1.1]
(8) [F52-OH1.1] [F01-OS1.1] [F01-OP1.1]
(9) [F52-OH1.1]
(10) [F81-OH1.1]
(11) [F81,F44-OH1.1] [F81,F44-OS1.1]
(12) [F81,F44-OH1.1]
(13) [F81-OH1.2] [F81,F44-OH1.1]
6.3.2.11. Return-Air System
(3) [F10-OS1.5]
6.3.2.12. Underground Ducts
(1) (a) [F44,F81-OH1.2,OH1.3] (b) [F44,F81-OH1.1]
(c) [F44,F81-OH1.1]
(2) [F81-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
6.3.2.13. Filters
(1) [F80-OS1.1] [F80-OP1.1]
(2) [F30-OS3.3]
[F81,F43-OH1.1]
Table 6.10.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
6.3.2.14. Cleaning Devices
(1) [F40,F50-OH1.1]
6.3.2.15. Evaporative Cooling Towers, Evaporative Fluid Coolers and Evaporative Condensers
(2) [F41,F44-OH1.1]
(4) [F41,F44-OH1.1] [F46,F81-OH2.2]
(5) [F81-OH2.1]
(6) [F82-OH1.1]
6.3.2.16. Evaporative Air Coolers, Misters, Atomizers, Air Washers and Humidifiers
(1) [F80,F81-OS1.1] [F80,F81-OP1.1]
(2) [F82-OH1.1]
(3) [F44-OH1.1]
6.3.2.17. Fans and Associated Air-Handling Equipment
(1) [F81,F44-OH1.1]
[F81,F44-OS3.4]
(2) [F81-OH1.1]
6.3.3.1. Requirement for Venting
(2) [F40,F44,F50-OH1.1]
6.3.3.2. Masonry or Concrete Chimneys
(2) [F01-OS1.1] [F01-OP1.1]
6.3.3.3. Metal Smoke Stacks
(1) [F01-OS1.1] [F01-OP1.1]
6.3.3.4. Access Ladders
(1) [F20,F80-OS3.1]
(2) [F30-OS3.1]
6.3.4.2. General Ventilation
(1) [F01-OS1.1]
[F01-OP1.1]
[F02-OP1.2]
[F02-OS1.2] [F81,F82-OS1.1]
(2) [F11,F81-OS1.1]
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Amended Page
Division B 6-19
                                                                                 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 6.10.1.1.
Division B
Table 6.10.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
6.3.4.3. Enclosure Exhaust Ventilation
(1) (a),(c),(d) [F01-OS1.1] (b) [F02-OP1.2]
(e) [F12-OP1.1,OP1.2]
(a) [F02-OP1.2]
(b) [F02-OS1.2] [F81-OS1.1] (e) [F12-OS1.1,OS1.2]
(a) [F02-OS1.2]
(a) [F01-OS1.1]
6.3.4.4. Enclosure Construction
(1) (a) [F02-OS1.2] Applies to portion of Code text: ”... be constructed of noncombustible materials ...”
(b) [F02-OP1.2]
(a) [F02-OP1.2] Applies to portion of Code text: “... be
constructed of noncombustible materials ...”
(a) [F80-OS3.4] Applies to portion of Code text: “... be constructed of ... materials ... chemically resistant to the dangerous goods vapours and particles being exhausted ...”
(b) [F02-OS1.2] [F82-OS1.1]
(a) [F80-OS1.1] Applies to portion of Code text: “... be constructed of ... materials ... chemically resistant to the dangerous goods vapours and particles being exhausted ...”
(a) [F01-OS1.1] Applies to portion of Code text: ”... be constructed of ... materials compatible with ... the dangerous goods vapours and particles being exhausted ...”
(3) [F02-OS1.2] [F02-OP1.2]
6.4.1.2. Appliances Installed Outside the Building
(1) [F81-OP1.1] [F81-OH1.1] [F81-OS1.1] 6.4.2.1. Clearances (1) [F01-OP1.1] [F01-OS1.1]
6.4.3.1. Lining or Backing
(1) [F01-OS1.1] [F01-OP1.1]
(2) [F01-OS1.1]
6.5.1.1. Insulation and Coverings
(2) [F20,F30-OS3.2,OS3.4]
(3) [F31-OS3.2]
6.6.1.1. Cooling Units
(1) [F43,F81-OS3.4]
6.7.1.1. Piping Materials and Installation
(1) [F20-OS3.2,OS3.4]
(2) [F21-OH1.1]
(3)
Table 6.10.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
[F20-OS2.2]
6-20 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
6.7.1.2. Clearances
(1) [F01-OS1.1] [F01-OP1.1]
6.7.1.3. Surface Temperature
(1) [F31-OS3.2]
6.7.1.4. Protection
(1) [F01-OS1.1] [F01-OP1.1]
6.7.2.1. Storage Bins
(1) [F30,F31,F43-OS3.2,OS3.4] (2) [F01-OS1.1]
[F01-OP1.1]
6.8.1.1. Access Openings
(1) [F36-OS3.6]
6.8.1.2. Openings in Air Duct Systems
(1) [F81-OH1.1,OH1.2] [F81,F44-OS3.4]
(2) [F82-OS1.1]
6.8.1.3. Odour Removal Equipment
(1) [F82-OH1.1]
(2) [F82-OH1.1]
6.9.1.2. Hazardous Gases, Dusts or Liquids
(1) [F01-OP1.1]
[F01-OS1.1]
(2) [F01-OS1.1] [F01-OP1.1]
6.9.1.3. Commercial Cooking Equipment
(1) [F02,F81-OS1.2] [F02,F81-OP1.2]
6.9.3.1. Carbon Monoxide Alarms
(2) (a),(b),(d) [F44-OS3.4] (c) [F81-OS3.4]
(3) [F44-OS3.4]
(4) [F44-OS3.4]
(5) [F44-OS3.4]
6.9.4.1. Ash Storage Bins
(1) [F01-OS1.1]
[F01-OP1.1]
(2) [F01-OS1.1] [F01-OP1.1]
Notes to Table 6.10.1.1.:
(1) See Parts 2 and 3 of Division A.
                                                                                  © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
Notes to Part 6
Heating, Ventilating and Air-conditioning
A-6.2.1.1. Good Engineering Practice.
Building Pressurization
New buildings tend to be considerably more airtight than older ones. Consequently, these buildings may have a reduced pressurization requirement compared to the normal requirement in order to limit drafts and provide a reasonable level of comfort.
The humidification and relative pressurization of buildings and individual spaces in buildings can be significant factors in compromising the ongoing performance of the building envelope and other environmental separators.
In new construction, HVAC designers should take this issue into consideration and confer with those responsible for the design of the environmental separators so as to limit unintended effects on the environmental separators. In existing buildings, the ability of the environmental separators to resist or accommodate increases in pressure differential or moisture loading should be considered before changes are made to the HVAC system.
Radon Control
Measures may be necessary to reduce the radon concentration to a level below the guideline specified by Health Canada.
Further information on reducing the indoor concentration of radon can be found in the following Health Canada publications:
• “GuideforRadonMeasurementsinPublicBuildings(Schools,Hospitals,CareFacilities,Detention Centres),” and
• “Radon: A Guide for Canadian Homeowners.”
A-6.2.1.2.(2) Outdoor Design Conditions. In the past, the practice of ventilating buildings with outdoor air assumed that the outdoor air was of better quality than the indoor air. It has become evident that the outdoor air in some areas of Canada may not be of an acceptable quality for ventilating buildings unless certain particles and gases are first removed or reduced. For particulate matter, the maximum acceptable level is the 98th percentile of the average 24 hour values; for ozone, the maximum acceptable level is the average of the average 8 hour values. A recent estimate suggests that many Canadians are exposed to contaminated outdoor air via buildings’ ventilation systems, which may lead to health problems such as cardiovascular and cerebral vascular diseases, respiratory irritation and illnesses, asthma, allergies, cancer, mucus membrane disorders and possibly death.
In order to manage the air quality of a building’s indoor environment, thus reducing the potential for adverse effects on occupants’ health, the quality of outdoor air for building ventilation purposes must be addressed. The air pollutants for which standards have been developed are particulate matter and ground-level ozone. Sentence 6.2.1.2.(2) sets limits on the maximum acceptable levels of these particles and gas that a building’s ventilation system should introduce directly to the indoor environment. These limits form part of the Canada-wide Standards for Particulate Matter (PM) and Ozone, which were established pursuant to the 1998 Canada-wide Accord on Environmental Harmonization of the Canadian Council of Ministers of the
These Notes are included for explanatory purposes only and do not form part of the requirements. The number that introduces each Note corresponds to the applicable requirement in this Part.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 6-21
  © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-6.2.1.4. Division B
Environment (CCME) and its Canada-wide Environmental Standards Sub-Agreement. Information on related regulations is available from Environment Canada and the provincial/territorial ministries of the environment. A database of particle measurements for certain Canadian locations is available from the National Air Pollution Surveillance Network (NAPS), which is run by Environment Canada in conjunction with the provinces and territories. (See Subsection 1.3.2. for contact information for CCME and Environment Canada.)
A-6.2.1.4. Structural Movement. This Article is intended to remind designers and installers of mechanical systems of one aspect of the “good engineering practice” referred to in Article 6.2.1.1.
In determining how to accommodate structural movement, there are two important principles to bear in mind: • TheprimeconcernoftheNBCisthesafetyofpeopleinandaroundthebuilding,asopposedtoprotection
of the mechanical systems and equipment.
• The nature of the accommodation will vary with the type of movement being considered, taking into
account particularly how often the movement is likely to be encountered over the life of the building.
For example, a gas line supported on columns that also support a crane must be installed in such a way that the movement of the columns, which occurs many times daily, does not cause the lines to break, thus creating a hazard. Even if the gas line installation could somehow be designed to break in a non-hazardous manner, it would hardly be recognized as good engineering practice if movement that occurs so frequently could disrupt the operation of the mechanical system.
On the other hand, earthquakes occur far less frequently and it would not be surprising to have a non-critical mechanical system fail as a result of an earthquake. However, even in this situation, the failure must occur in a manner that does not create a hazard to building occupants. For example, heavy mechanical equipment should be properly anchored so that it does not topple on building occupants during an earthquake. The design of the anchors should take into account accelerations consistent with the seismic data given in Appendix C for the location of the building. Part 4 provides guidance on the calculation of the loads such equipment would exert on the building structure during an earthquake; these same loads can be used in designing the anchors.
Some mechanical equipment can be an important component of post-disaster life safety systems. In these cases, the measures needed to accommodate the movements caused by an earthquake become even more critical since failure of the equipment would not be acceptable.
Clearly, complying with this requirement will, in most cases, necessitate close coordination between the mechanical designer and the structural designer.
For additional information on the types of structural movement that may be encountered, see Article 4.1.3.5., Sentence 4.1.3.3.(2) and Subsection 4.1.8.
A-6.2.1.6.(1) Installation – General. Ducts or pipes without dampers or valves are generally not considered to constitute “equipment” and are therefore not subject to this requirement.
A-6.3.1.2.(1) Ventilation and Venting of Crawl Spaces and Attic or Roof Spaces. The cross-reference to Part 5 pertains to unconditioned and unoccupied crawl spaces, and attic or roof spaces, which are effectively within the building envelope. That is, unconditioned and unoccupied attic or roof spaces are located between the roof deck and roofing above, and the insulation, air barrier system and vapour barrier below. Unconditioned and unoccupied crawl spaces are located between the ground cover below and the insulation, air barrier system and vapour barrier above. Venting of these spaces has implications for the performance of the building envelope rather than having direct effects on indoor conditions. The ventilation of conditioned or occupied crawl spaces and attic or roof spaces must comply with Part 6.
The requirements in Part 5 are stated in terms of loads that must be resisted rather than in terms of building elements. Thus, the Code user will not find explicit references in Part 5 to crawl spaces, or attic or roof spaces. Part 5 makes reference to the need for venting environmental separators, i.e., the dissipation of heat or moisture.
Sentence 6.3.1.2.(1) requires that crawl spaces be ventilated either by natural (above-grade only) or mechanical means. High moisture levels within the crawl space can lead to problems such as the formation of mould, lifting of flooring or long-term damage to structural components.
Crawl space ventilation cannot be expected to correct moisture-related problems caused by other factors like inadequate surface drainage from the foundation walls or improper protection against moisture from the ground. These conditions must be properly addressed so that crawl space ventilation can meet its intended objectives.
6-22 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B A-6.3.1.8.(6)(a)
Several factors favour the use of mechanical ventilation rather than reliance on natural drafts. Local conditions, such as areas with high water tables, may dictate the need for mechanical ventilation to remove excessive moisture.
Crawl spaces should be maintained at a negative pressure relative to the conditioned area above to prevent the migration of moisture into occupied areas. This can be achieved through the use of an exhaust fan and relying on air transfer through floor penetrations, such as pipes.
A-6.3.1.4.(1) Storage Garages. Areas where motor vehicles are parked with the engine off for extended periods of time, such as car dealership showrooms, are not considered as storage garages.
A-6.3.1.4.(2) Ventilation of Storage Garages. Storage garages are ventilated to protect occupants from exposure to carbon monoxide and other vehicular exhaust fumes. In certain cases, such as small two- or three-bay storage garages that are used for occasional vehicle storage, and where occupants are not present, carbon monoxide or nitrogen dioxide monitoring devices may be omitted if the ventilation system is interlocked with a local light switch or other controls to ensure continuous system operation whenever the area is occupied. In any event, the ventilation system capacity must be designed to limit the concentrations of carbon monoxide or nitrogen dioxide at or below the prescribed values.
A-6.3.1.6. Indoor Air Contaminants.
Contaminants of Concern
Indoor air can contain complex mixtures of contaminants of concern such as formaldehyde, legionella, mould and emissions from building materials. While some contaminants may be knowingly introduced—as in the case of processing and manufacturing environments—others may be unintentionally released
into indoor environments. The “Exposure Guidelines for Residential Indoor Air Quality,” published by Health Canada, is a useful reference on the control of contaminants in residential settings. These and other guidelines and manuals should be interpreted while keeping in mind the settings and purposes for which they were developed compared to those to which they will be applied. Note that such documents do not necessarily consider the interactions between various contaminants.
Minimizing the Growth and Spread of Bio-contaminants
Bio-contaminants, such as bacteria, mould, mildew, fungi, viruses, and pollen, can thrive or be spread by sources like drain pans, spray-water air-washers, contaminated filters, poorly maintained cooling coils, water incursion into ductwork, cafeteria dishwasher drainage leaks, high humidity and stagnant water, potentially causing a wide range of adverse health effects including respiratory allergic reactions, asthma, and infectious diseases ranging from influenza to legionnaires’ disease.
Some of the control measures are as follows:
(a) Air-handling equipment should be accessible for the maintenance of filters, cooling coils and
condensate drain pans located below the cooling coils. Access doors should be large and easy to open
to facilitate thorough and regular maintenance.
(b) If moisture is added to building ventilation air to maintain humidity levels in a designated range,
humidifiers that inject steam or water vapour into central air-handling units or main supply ducts are normally used. Injection nozzles should not be located in air-handling unit plenums or ductwork that is insulated with internal fibrous lining. If the lining becomes wet, conditions conducive to the growth and spread of bio-contaminants will result.
The above only addresses built-in features of an HVAC system that can help to minimize the growth and spread of bio-contaminants. Even more important than the built-in features is a program of regular maintenance and cleaning of those portions of the system where such growth is likely to occur.
A-6.3.1.8.(5)(a) Principal Ventilation System. A principal ventilation system may include one or more principal fans.
A-6.3.1.8.(6)(a) Supply of Make-up Air. Refer to Sentences 9.32.3.8.(2) to (5). Make-up air to a dwelling unit must always be outdoor air.
The calculation of the supply of make-up air of supplemental exhaust fans of a dwelling unit may take into account
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 6-23
   © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-6.3.1.8.(6)(b) Division B
• a number of 2 supplemental exhaust fans of the dwelling unit, provided that their exhaust rate is the highest among the supplemental exhaust fans present in the dwelling unit (generally, the rate of the exhaust fan of the kitchen hood or the clothes dryer is higher than that of the exhaust fan in the bathroom or the washroom),
• the low air infiltration rate from around a door installed in accordance with NFPA 80, “Fire Doors and Other Opening Protectives,” opening on a corridor where all the requirements applying to the fire separation are met.
At the same time, the calculation of the total supply of make-up air for supplemental exhaust fans present in all the dwelling units served by the principal ventilation may take into account an operation diversity factor based on the total number of supplemental exhaust fans present in the dwelling units. The good engineering practice (see Article 6.2.1.1.) may provide indications on the subject.
A-6.3.1.8.(6)(b) Air Circulation. Measures must be taken to ensure free circulation of air from one room to another, in particular by providing spaces under doors or using doors with tilted louvers or grilles.
A-6.3.1.8.(7)(c) Components of the Principal Ventilation System. Without limitation, moisture, pressure and differential pressure sensors and primary automatic or manual controls are considered elements or devices referred to in this Article.
A-6.3.1.8.(8)(c) Heat Recovery Ventilators. For the purposes of Part 11, sensible heat recovery efficiency from the heat recovery ventilators (HRVs) must be determined with a flow rate equal to or greater than the expected flow rate for the normal operation of the HRVs at low speed.
A-6.3.1.8.(9) Modulation. It is permitted to modulate the air intake by using an individual mechanical pressure sensor in each dwelling unit or by offsetting the air intake in each dwelling unit with supplemental exhaust fans.
A-6.3.1.8.(17) Exhaust in Each Bathroom and Washroom. In Clause (a), the flow rate required by the exhaust fan in these rooms need not be taken into account in the exhaust flow rate calculation required
by Sentence 6.3.1.8.(10).
Clause (b) sets the conditions for a special design of the ventilation of the dwelling unit for drawing air from a bathroom or washroom by the principal ventilation system of the dwelling unit. Since it is the principal ventilation system of the dwelling unit, the exhaust rate must be taken into account in the exhaust calculation required in Sentence 6.3.1.8.(10). The design could omit the manual exhaust control of such a bathroom or washroom when the system complies with all the other requirements in the Article and the owner or operator of the building undertakes to authorize the operation of the system at a rate for maintaining the required minimum exhaust rate of 25 L/s in the bathroom or washroom. Maintaining that exhaust rate must not affect the air quality inside the dwelling unit, by drying the air for example, or increase the depressurization in the dwelling unit while limiting to a minimum an excessive use of energy. Considering the complexity, potential impact and undertakings required, an application for an alternative solution should be submitted to the Régie du bâtiment for the evaluation of such design (see Note A-1.2.1.1.(1)(b) of Division A).
A-6.3.1.8.(18) Mechanical Ventilation of Corridors and Stairwells. The value of the air change rate per hour is not related to the requirement for higher pressure. To ensure the positive pressure, the air change rate per hour will often be higher than that provided for in Clause (a).
A-6.3.2.5. Duct Coverings and Linings. The TIAC “Mechanical Insulation Best Practices Guide” is
a comprehensive source of information on the selection, installation and proper use of thermal insulation materials. (Note that Section 4 of this Guide is not included in the scope of this Note as it contains information on proprietary products, which are not within the mandate of the Code.)
A-6.3.2.10.(5) and (6) Exhausting to Garages. A frequent practice in the design of ventilation systems serving buildings which have associated parking garages is to discharge exhaust air from the building to the garage in order to reduce the cost of heating the garage or reduce the length of the exhaust ducts. However, this practice entails a certain amount of risk since, when the exhaust system is not running, stack effect may turn the exhaust outlets into intakes and exhaust fumes (including carbon monoxide) can be drawn from the garage into the building. Incorporating a backdraft damper at the exhaust outlet provides some additional protection but backdraft dampers are generally not regarded as being very reliable. Therefore this practice is only permitted in very limited circumstances.
6-24 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
  © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B A-6.3.3.1.(2)
A-6.3.2.10.(6)(b) Air Contaminants. For the purpose of Clause 6.3.2.10.(6)(b), washroom exhaust air is not considered to contain contaminants that would adversely affect the air quality in the storage garage.
A-6.3.2.10.(7) and (8) Exhaust Ducts Connected to Laundry-Drying Equipment. Clothes dryers are a major cause of fires in buildings often due to a build-up of lint in the system, which then ignites or obstructs the venting or ventilation. Proper cleaning and regular maintenance of lint traps is directly proportional to the ease of access to the lint traps. It is therefore important to ensure that lint traps in multiple installations of laundry-drying equipment are installed in such a way as to allow easy access for inspection, maintenance, repair and cleaning.
A-6.3.2.10.(12)(b) Operation Diversity Factor. The operation diversity factor has to be assessed for each specific application. Good engineering practice (see Article 6.2.1.1.) design guidelines can provide information on the subject. Figure A-6.3.2.10.(12)(b), which originates from ASHRAE handbooks, provides an example of factors that can be used for general applications.
Figure A-6.3.2.10.(12)(b) Operation diversity factor
A-6.3.3.1.(2) Requirement for Venting. Sentence 6.3.3.1.(2) requires that vented products of combustion from appliances be discharged a minimum distance away from certain outdoor spaces and building components in cases where the vented products could contaminate the air of occupiable spaces. These minimum distances may need to be increased due to local conditions such as prevailing winds, adjacent structures, special processes being carried out, specific contaminants or effluent discharges, all of which would require further analysis.
“Occupiable outdoor spaces” refers to areas that could be occupied for a duration of more than fifteen minutes at any time, but does not include maintenance spaces. Occupiable outdoor spaces are located adjacent to an indoor space and are considered to be an extension of this indoor space: e.g. main entries, balconies, patios, decks, green roofs and other public assembly areas. Although sidewalks and driveways are mentioned in the provision, these areas are not considered as occupiable outdoor spaces since they are used as transport routes to and from the building, and people are not expected to remain there for extended periods of time.
The requirements of Sentence 6.3.3.1.(2) are not meant to override similar requirements found in the installation standards referenced in Article 6.2.1.5. that address identical situations.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 6-25
               





             

       
       © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-6.5.1.1.(3) Division B
A-6.5.1.1.(3) Temperature of Exposed Piping. Normally piping carrying steam or high-temperature hot water at pressures above atmospheric (corresponding temperature 100°C or above) will be insulated to reduce heat losses as an economy measure. Above a temperature of approximately 70°C, however, a bare pipe can cause a burn to human flesh coming in contact with the pipe. If pipes above this temperature are normally out of reach of all persons other than maintenance personnel or are properly guarded, it would be expected that no insulation would be needed for public safety.
A-6.9.1.2.(1) NFPA Publications Pertaining to the Heating, Ventilating and Air-Conditioning of Spaces Containing Hazardous Gases, Dusts or Liquids.
NFPA 30, “Flammable and Combustible Liquids Code”
NFPA 30A, “Motor Fuel Dispensing Facilities and Repair Garages”
NFPA 32, “Drycleaning Plants”
NFPA 33, “Spray Application Using Flammable or Combustible Materials”
NFPA 34, “Dipping, Coating, and Printing Processes Using Flammable or Combustible Liquids”
NFPA 35, “Manufacture of Organic Coatings”
NFPA 36, “Solvent Extraction Plants”
NFPA 40, “Storage and Handling of Cellulose Nitrate Film”
NFPA 51, “Design and Installation of Oxygen-Fuel Gas Systems for Welding, Cutting, and Allied Processes” NFPA 51A, “Acetylene Cylinder Charging Plants”
NFPA 55, “Compressed Gases and Cryogenic Fluids Code”
NFPA 61, “Prevention of Fires and Dust Explosions in Agricultural and Food Processing Facilities”
NFPA 68, “Explosion Protection by Deflagration Venting”
NFPA 69, “Explosion Prevention Systems”
NFPA 85, “Boiler and Combustion Systems Hazards Code”
NFPA 86, “Ovens and Furnaces”
NFPA 88A, “Parking Structures”
NFPA 91, “Exhaust Systems for Air Conveying of Vapors, Gases, Mists, and Noncombustible Particulate
Solids”
NFPA 96, “Ventilation Control and Fire Protection of Commercial Cooking Operations”
NFPA 204, “Smoke and Heat Venting”
NFPA 303, “Marinas and Boatyards”
NFPA 307, “Construction and Fire Protection of Marine Terminals, Piers, and Wharves”
NFPA 409, “Aircraft Hangars”
NFPA 415, “Airport Terminal Buildings, Fueling Ramp Drainage, and Loading Walkways”
NFPA 484, “Combustible Metals”
NFPA 654, “Prevention of Fire and Dust Explosions from the Manufacturing, Processing, and Handling of
Combustible Particulate Solids”
NFPA 655, “Prevention of Sulfur Fires and Explosions”
NFPA 664, “Prevention of Fires and Explosions in Wood Processing and Woodworking Facilities” NFPA “Fire Protection Guide to Hazardous Materials”
A-6.9.3.1.(2)(c) Carbon Monoxide Alarms. Battery-powered carbon monoxide alarms are acceptable provided that they are mechanically fastened in place.
6-26 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
Part 7
Plumbing Services
7.1. General
7.1.1. Scope ................................................ 7-1
7.1.2. Design and Installation .................... 7-1
7.1.3. Required Facilities .......................... 7-1
7.1.4. Definitions ......................................... 7-1
7.2. Objectives and Functional Statements
7.2.1. Objectives and Functional
Statements ........................................ 7-1
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1

 Division B
Part 7
Plumbing Services
Section 7.1. General
7.1.1. 7.1.1.1.
7.1.1.2.
7.1.2. 7.1.2.1.
7.1.3. 7.1.3.1.
7.1.3.2.
7.1.4. 7.1.4.1.
Scope Scope
1) The scope of this Part shall be as described in Subsection 1.3.3. of Division A. Application
1) This Part applies to the design, construction, extension, alteration, renewal or repair of plumbing systems.
Design and Installation
Conformance with Regulations or National Plumbing Code
1) Every plumbing system shall be designed and installed in conformance with appropriate provincial or territorial regulations or municipal bylaws, in the absence of such regulations or bylaws, in conformance with the NPC.
Required Facilities
All Buildings Except Dwelling Units
1) Buildings shall be equipped with plumbing facilities as required in Subsection 3.7.2. and Article 3.8.2.8.
Dwelling Units
1) Dwelling units shall be equipped with plumbing facilities as required in
Section 9.31.
Definitions Defined Terms
1) Words that appear in italics are defined in Article 1.4.1.2. of Division A. Section 7.2. Objectives and Functional Statements
7.2.1. Objectives and Functional Statements 7.2.1.1. Attributions to Acceptable Solutions
1) For the purpose of compliance with this Code as required in
Clause 1.2.1.1.(1)(b) of Division A, the objectives and functional statements attributed
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 7-1
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 7.2.1.1. Division B
to the acceptable solutions in this Part shall be the objectives and functional statements listed in Table 7.2.1.1. (See Note A-1.1.2.1.(1).)
Table 7.2.1.1.
Objectives and Functional Statements Attributed to the Acceptable Solutions in Part 7
Forming Part of Sentence 7.2.1.1.(1)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
7.1.2.1. Conformance with Regulations or National Plumbing Code
(1) [F30-OS3.1] [F31-OS3.2] [F43-OS3.4] [F70-OH2.2] [F72-OH2.1]
Notes to Table 7.2.1.1.:
(1) See Parts 2 and 3 of Division A.
7-2 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
     © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
Part 8 Reserved
.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B 8-1
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022
8-2 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1

 Division B
Appendix C
Climatic and Seismic Information for Building Design in Canada
Introduction
The great diversity of climate in Canada has a considerable effect on the performance of buildings; consequently, building design must reflect this diversity. This Appendix briefly describes how climatic design values are computed and provides recommended design data for a number of cities, towns, and lesser populated locations. Through the use of such data, appropriate allowances can be made for climate variations in different localities of Canada and the National Building Code can be applied nationally.
The climatic design data presented in Table C-2 are based on weather observations collected by the Atmospheric Environment Service, Environment Canada. The data were researched and analyzed for the Canadian Commission on Building and Fire Codes by Environment Canada.
As it is not practical to list values for all municipalities in Canada, recommended climatic design values for locations not listed can be obtained by contacting the Atmospheric Environment Service, Environment Canada, 4905 Dufferin Street, Downsview, Ontario M3H 5T4, (416) 739-4365. It should be noted, however, that these recommended values may differ from the legal requirements set by provincial, territorial or municipal building authorities.
The information on seismic hazard in spectral format given in Table C-3 has been provided by the Geological Survey of Canada of Natural Resources Canada. Information for municipalities not listed can be obtained at www.earthquakescanada.nrcan.gc.ca or by writing to the Geological Survey of Canada at 7 Observatory Crescent, Ottawa, Ontario K1A 0Y3, or at P.O. Box 6000, Sidney, B.C. V8L 4B2.
General
The choice of climatic elements tabulated in this Appendix and the form in which they are expressed have been dictated largely by the requirements for specific values in several sections of this Code. These elements include the Ground Snow Loads, Wind Pressures, Design Temperatures, Heating Degree-Days, One-Day and 15-Minute Rainfalls, the Annual Total Precipitation values and Seismic Data. The following notes briefly explain the significance of these particular elements in building design, and indicate which weather observations were used and how they were analyzed to yield the required design values.
Table C-2 lists design weather recommendations and elevations for over 600 locations, which have been chosen based on a variety of reasons. Many incorporated cities and towns with significant populations are included unless located close to larger cities. For sparsely populated areas, many smaller towns and villages are listed. Other locations have been added to the list when the demand for climatic design recommendations at these sites has been significant. The named locations refer to the specific latitude and longitude defined by
the Gazetteer of Canada (Natural Resources Canada), available from Publishing and Depository Services Canada, Public Works and Government Services Canada, Ottawa, Ontario K1A 0S5. The elevations are given in metres and refer to heights above sea level.
Almost all of the weather observations used in preparing Table C-2 were, of necessity, observed at inhabited locations. To estimate design values for arbitrary locations, the observed or computed values for the weather stations were mapped and interpolated appropriately. Where possible, adjustments have been applied for the influence of elevation and known topographical effects. Such influences include the tendency of cold air to collect in depressions, for precipitation to increase with elevation, and for generally stronger winds near large
This information is included for explanatory purposes only and does not form part of the requirements.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B C-1
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Appendix C Division B
bodies of water. Elevations have been added to Table C-2 because of their potential to significantly influence climatic design values.
Since interpolation from the values in Table C-2 to other locations may not be valid due to local and other effects, Environment Canada will provide climatic design element recommendations for locations not listed in Table C-2. Local effects are particularly significant in mountainous areas, where the values apply only to populated valleys and not to the mountain slopes and high passes, where very different conditions are known to exist.
Changing and Variable Climates
Climate is not static. At any location, weather and climatic conditions vary from season to season, year to year, and over longer time periods (climate cycles). This has always been the case. In fact, evidence is mounting that the climates of Canada are changing and will continue to change significantly into future. When estimating climatic design loads, this variability can be considered using appropriate statistical analysis, data records spanning sufficient periods, and meteorological judgement. The analysis generally assumes that the past climate will be representative of the future climate.
Past and ongoing modifications to atmospheric chemistry (from greenhouse gas emissions and land use changes) are expected to alter most climatic regimes in the future despite the success of the most ambitious greenhouse gas mitigation plans.(1) Some regions could see an increase in the frequency and intensity of many weather extremes, which will accelerate weathering processes. Consequently, many buildings will need to be designed, maintained and operated to adequately withstand ever changing climatic loads.
Similar to global trends, the last decade in Canada was noted as the warmest in instrumented record. Canada has warmed, on average, at almost twice the rate of the global average increase, while the western Arctic is warming at a rate that is unprecedented over the past 400 years.(1) Mounting evidence from Arctic communities indicates that rapid changes to climate in the North have resulted in melting permafrost and impacts from other climate changes have affected nearly every type of built structure. Furthermore, analyses of Canadian precipitation data shows that many regions of the country have, on average, also been tending towards wetter conditions.(1) In the United States, where the density of climate monitoring stations is greater, a number of studies have found an unambiguous upward trend in the frequency of heavy to extreme precipitation events, with these increases coincident with a general upward trend in the total amount of precipitation. Climate change model results, based on an ensemble of global climate models worldwide, project that future climate warming rates will be greatest in higher latitude countries such as Canada.(2)
January Design Temperatures
A building and its heating system should be designed to maintain the inside temperature at some pre-determined level. To achieve this, it is necessary to know the most severe weather conditions under which the system will be expected to function satisfactorily. Failure to maintain the inside temperature at the pre-determined level will not usually be serious if the temperature drop is not great and if the duration is not long. The outside conditions used for design should, therefore, not be the most severe in many years, but should be the somewhat less severe conditions that are occasionally but not greatly exceeded.
The January design temperatures are based on an analysis of January air temperatures only. Wind and solar radiation also affect the inside temperature of most buildings and may need to be considered for energy-efficient design.
The January design temperature is defined as the lowest temperature at or below which only a certain small percentage of the hourly outside air temperatures in January occur. In the past, a total of 158 stations with records from all or part of the period 1951-66 formed the basis for calculation of the 2.5 and 1% January temperatures. Where necessary, the data were adjusted for consistency. Since most of the temperatures were observed at airports, design values for the core areas of large cities could be 1 or 2°C milder, although the values for the outlying areas are probably about the same as for the airports. No adjustments were made for this urban island heat effect. The design values for the next 20 to 30 years will probably differ from these tabulated values due to year-to-year climate variability and global climate change resulting from the impact of human activities on atmospheric chemistry.
The design temperatures were reviewed and updated using hourly temperature observations from 480 stations for a 25-year period up to 2006 with at least 8 years of complete data. These data are consistent with data shown for Canadian locations in the 2009 Handbook of Fundamentals(3) published by the American Society of Heating, Refrigerating, and Air-Conditioning Engineers (ASHRAE). The most recent 25 years of record were used to provide a balance between accounting for trends in the climate and the sampling variation owing to year-to-year variation. The 1% and 2.5% values used for the design conditions represent percentiles of the
C-2 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B Appendix C
cumulative frequency distribution of hourly temperatures and correspond to January temperatures that are colder for 8 and 19 hours, respectively, on average over the long term.
The 2.5% January design temperature is the value ordinarily used in the design of heating systems. In special cases, when the control of inside temperature is more critical, the 1% value may be used. Other temperature-dependent climatic design parameters may be considered for future issues of this document.
July Design Temperatures
A building and its cooling and dehumidifying system should be designed to maintain the inside temperature and humidity at certain pre-determined levels. To achieve this, it is necessary to know the most severe weather conditions under which the system is expected to function satisfactorily. Failure to maintain the inside temperature and humidity at the pre-determined levels will usually not be serious if the increases in temperature and humidity are not great and the duration is not long. The outside conditions used for design should, therefore, not be the most severe in many years, but should be the somewhat less severe conditions that are occasionally but not greatly exceeded.
The summer design temperatures in this Appendix are based on an analysis of July air temperatures and humidities. Wind and solar radiation also affect the inside temperature of most buildings and may, in some cases, be more important than the outside air temperature. More complete summer and winter design information can be obtained from Environment Canada.
The July design dry-bulb and wet-bulb temperatures were reviewed and updated using hourly temperature observations from 480 stations for a 25-year period up to 2006. These data are consistent with data shown for Canadian locations in the 2009 Handbook of Fundamentals(3) published by ASHRAE. As with January design temperatures, data from the most recent 25-year period were analyzed to reflect any recent climatic changes or variations. The 2.5% values used for the dry- and wet-bulb design conditions represent percentiles of
the cumulative frequency distribution of hourly dry- and wet-bulb temperatures and correspond to July temperatures that are higher for 19 hours on average over the long term.
Heating Degree-Days
The rate of consumption of fuel or energy required to keep the interior of a small building at 21°C when the outside air temperature is below 18°C is roughly proportional to the difference between 18°C and the outside temperature. Wind speed, solar radiation, the extent to which the building is exposed to these elements and the internal heat sources also affect the heat required and may have to be considered for energy-efficient design. For average conditions of wind, radiation, exposure, and internal sources, however, the proportionality with the temperature difference generally still holds.
Since the fuel required is also proportional to the duration of the cold weather, a convenient method of combining these elements of temperature and time is to add the differences between 18°C and the mean temperature for every day in the year when the mean temperature is below 18°C. It is assumed that no heat is required when the mean outside air temperature for the day is 18°C or higher.
Although more sophisticated computer simulations using other forms of weather data have now almost completely replaced degree-day-based calculation methods for estimating annual heating energy consumption, degree-days remain a useful indicator of relative severity of climate and can form the basis for certain climate-related Code requirements.
The degree-days below 18°C were compiled for 1300 stations for the 25-year period ending in 2006. This analysis period is consistent with the one used to derive the design temperatures described above and with the approach used by ASHRAE.(3)
A difference of only one Celsius degree in the mean annual temperature will cause a difference of 250 to 350 in the Celsius degree-days. Since differences of 0.5 of a Celsius degree in the mean annual temperature are quite likely to occur between two stations in the same town, heating degree-days cannot be relied on to an accuracy of less than about 100 degree-days.
Heating degree-day values for the core areas of larger cities can be 200 to 400 degree-days less (warmer) than for the surrounding fringe areas. The observed degree-days, which are based on daily temperature observations, are often most representative of rural settings or the fringe areas of cities.
Climatic Data for Energy Consumption Calculations
The climatic elements tabulated in this Appendix represent commonly used design values but do not include detailed climatic profiles, such as hourly weather data. Where hourly values of weather data are needed for
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B C-3
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Appendix C Division B
the purpose of simulating the annual energy consumption of a building, they can be obtained from multiple sources, such as Environment Canada, Natural Resources Canada, the Regional Conservation Authority and other such public agencies that record this information. Hourly weather data are also available from public and private agencies that format this information for use with annual energy consumption simulation software; in some cases, these data have been incorporated into the software.
Snow Loads
The roof of a building should be able to support the greatest weight of snow that is likely to accumulate on it in many years. Some observations of snow on roofs have been made in Canada, but not enough to form the basis for estimating roof snow loads throughout the country. Similarly, observations of the weight, or water equivalent, of the snow on the ground have not been available in digital form in the past. The observations of roof loads and water equivalents are very useful, as noted below, but the measured depth of snow on the ground is used to provide the basic information for a consistent set of snow loads.
The estimation of the design snow load on a roof from snow depth observations involves the following steps:
1. Thedepthofsnowontheground,whichhasanannualprobabilityofexceedanceof1-in-50,iscomputed.
2. Theappropriatespecificweightisselectedandusedtoconvertsnowdepthtoloads,Ss.
3. The load, Sr, which is due to rain falling on the snow, is computed.
4. Becausetheaccumulationofsnowonroofsisoftendifferentfromthatontheground,adjustmentsare applied to the ground snow load to provide a design snow load on a roof.
The annual maximum depth of snow on the ground has been assembled for 1618 stations for which data has been recorded by the Atmospheric Environment Service (AES). The period of record used varied from station to station, ranging from 7 to 38 years. These data were analyzed using a Gumbel extreme value distribution fitted using the method of moments(4) as reported by Newark et al.(5) The resulting values are the snow depths, which have a probability of 1-in-50 of being exceeded in any one year.
The specific weight of old snow generally ranges from 2 to 5 kN/m3, and it is usually assumed in Canada that 1 kN/m3 is the average for new snow. Average specific weights of the seasonal snow pack have been derived for different regions across the country(6) and an appropriate value has been assigned to each weather station. Typically, the values average 2.01 kN/m3 east of the continental divide (except for 2.94 kN/m3 north
of the treeline), and range from 2.55 to 4.21 kN/m3 west of the divide. The product of the 1-in-50 snow depth and the average specific weight of the seasonal snow pack at a station is converted to the snow load (SL) in units of kilopascals (kPa).
Except for the mountainous areas of western Canada, the values of the ground snow load at AES stations were normalized assuming a linear variation of the load above sea level in order to account for the effects of topography. They were then smoothed using an uncertainty-weighted moving-area average in order to minimize the uncertainty due to snow depth sampling errors and site-specific variations. Interpolation from analyzed maps of the smooth normalized values yielded a value for each location in Table C-2, which could then be converted to the listed code values (Ss) by means of an equation in the form:
where b is the assumed rate of change of SL with elevation at the location and Z is the location’s elevation above mean sea level (MSL). Although they are listed in Table C-2 to the nearest tenth of a kilopascal, values of Ss typically have an uncertainty of about 20%. Areas of sparse data in northern Canada were an exception to this procedure. In these regions, an analysis was made of the basic SL values. The effects of topography, variations due to local climates, and smoothing were all subjectively assessed. The values derived in this fashion were used to modify those derived objectively.
For the mountainous areas of British Columbia, Yukon, and the foothills area of Alberta, a more complex procedure was required to account for the variation of loads with terrain and elevation. Since the AES observational network often does not have sufficient coverage to detail this variability in mountainous areas, additional snow course observations were obtained from the provincial and territorial governments of British Columbia, Yukon, and Alberta. The additional data allowed detailed local analysis of ground snow loads on a valley-by-valley basis. Similar to other studies, the data indicated that snow loads above a critical or reference level increased according to either a linear or quadratic relation with elevation. The determination of whether the increase with elevation was linear or quadratic, the rate of the increase and the critical or reference elevation were found to be specific to the valley and mountain ranges considered. At valley levels below the critical elevation, the loads generally varied less significantly with elevation. Calculated valley- and range-specific regression relations were then used to describe the increase of load with elevation and to normalize the AES
C-4 Division B Amended Page National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B Appendix C
snow observations to a critical or reference level. These normalized values were smoothed using a weighted moving-average.
Tabulated values cannot be expected to indicate all the local differences in Ss. For this reason, especially in complex terrain areas, values should not be interpolated from Table C-2 for unlisted locations. The values of Ss in the Table apply for the elevation and the latitude and longitude of the location, as defined by the Gazetteer of Canada. Values at other locations can be obtained from Environment Canada.
The heaviest loads frequently occur when the snow is wetted by rain, thus the rain load, Sr, was estimated to the nearest 0.1 kPa and is provided in Table C-2. When values of Sr are added to Ss, this provides a 1-in-50-year estimate of the combined ground snow and rain load. The values of Sr are based on an analysis of about 2100 weather station values of the 1-in-50-year one-day maximum rain amount. This return period is appropriate because the rain amounts correspond approximately to the joint frequency of occurrence of the one-day rain on maximum snow packs. For the purpose of estimating rain on snow, the individual observed one-day rain amounts were constrained to be less than or equal to the snow pack water equivalent, which was estimated by a snow pack accumulation model reported by Bruce and Clark.(7)
The results from surveys of snow loads on roofs indicate that average roof loads are generally less than loads on the ground. The conditions under which the design snow load on the roof may be taken as a percentage of the ground snow load are given in Subsection 4.1.6. The Code also permits further decreases in design snow loads for steeply sloping roofs, but requires substantial increases for roofs where snow accumulation may be more rapid due to such factors as drifting. Recommended adjustments are given in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
The ground snow load values, Ss, were updated for the 2015 edition of the Code using a similar approach to the one used for the ground snow load update in the 1990 edition. The Gumbel extreme value distribution was fitted to the annual maxima of daily snow depth observations made at over 1400 weather stations, which were compiled from 1990 onward—to as recently as 2012 for some stations—to calculate the 50-year return period snow depth. The 50-year ground snow load was then calculated for each weather station by combining the 50-year snow pack depth with the assigned snow pack density. The Ss values for each location in Table C-2 were compared with the updated weather station values and revised accordingly. As a result, Ss values remain unchanged for about 84% of the locations, have increased for 11% of the locations, and have decreased for 4% of the locations. The greatest proportion of increases was for locations in the Yukon, Northwest Territories, and Nunavut.
Annual Total Precipitation
Total precipitation is the sum in millimetres of the measured depth of rainwater and the estimated or measured water equivalent of the snow (typically estimated as 0.1 of the measured depth of snow, since the average density of fresh snow is about 0.1 that of water).
The average annual total precipitation amounts in Table C-2 have been interpolated from an analysis of precipitation observations from 1379 stations for the 30-year period from 1961 to 1990.
Annual Rainfall
The total amount of rain that normally falls in one year is frequently used as a general indication of the wetness of a climate, and is therefore included in this Appendix. See also Moisture Index below.
Rainfall Intensity
Roof drainage systems are designed to carry off rainwater from the most intense rainfall that is likely to occur. A certain amount of time is required for the rainwater to flow across and down the roof before it enters the gutter or drainage system. This results in the smoothing out of the most rapid changes in rainfall intensity. The drainage system, therefore, need only cope with the flow of rainwater produced by the average rainfall intensity over a period of a few minutes, which can be called the concentration time.
In Canada, it has been customary to use the 15-minute rainfall that will probably be exceeded on an average of once in 10 years. The concentration time for small roofs is much less than 15 minutes and hence the design intensity will be exceeded more frequently than once in 10 years. The safety factors in the NPC will probably reduce the frequency to a reasonable value and, in addition, the occasional failure of a roof drainage system will not be particularly serious in most cases.
The rainfall intensity values were updated for the 2010 edition of the Code using observations of annual maximum 15-minute rainfall amounts from 485 stations with 10 or more years of record, including data
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Amended Page Division B C-5
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Appendix C Division B
up to 2007 for some stations. Ten-year return period values—the 15-minute rainfall having a probability
of 1-in-10 of being exceeded in any year— were calculated by fitting the annual maximum values to the Gumbel extreme value distribution(4) using the method of moments. The updated values are compiled from the most recent short-duration rainfall intensity-duration-frequency (IDF) graphs and tables available from Environment Canada.
It is very difficult to estimate the pattern of rainfall intensity in mountainous areas, where precipitation is extremely variable and rainfall intensity can be much greater than in other types of areas. Many of the observations for these areas were taken at locations in valley bottoms or in extensive, fairly level areas.
One-Day Rainfall
If for any reason a roof drainage system becomes ineffective, the accumulation of rainwater may be great enough in some cases to cause a significant increase in the load on the roof. In previous editions of this information, it had been common practice to use the maximum one-day rainfall ever observed for estimating the additional load. Since the length of record for weather stations in Canada is quite variable, the maximum one-day rainfall amounts in previous editions often reflected the variable length of record at nearby stations as much as the climatology. As a result, the maximum values often differed greatly within relatively small areas where little difference should be expected. The current values have been standardized to represent
the one-day rainfall amounts that have 1 chance in 50 of being exceeded in any one year or the 1-in-50-year return value one-day rainfalls.
The one-day rainfall values were updated using daily rainfall observations from more than 3500 stations with 10 years or more of record, including data up to 2008 for some stations. The 50-year return period values were calculated by fitting the annual maximum one-day rainfall observations to the Gumbel extreme value distribution using the method of moments.(4)
Rainfall frequency observations can vary considerably over time and space. This is especially true for mountainous areas, where elevation effects can be significant. In other areas, small-scale intense storms or local influences can produce significant spatial variability in the data. As a result, the analysis incorporates some spatial smoothing.
Moisture Index (MI)
Moisture index (MI) values were developed through the work of a consortium that included representatives from industry and researchers from NRC.(1) The MI is an indicator of the moisture load imposed on a building by the climate and is used in Part 9 to define the minimum levels of protection from precipitation to be provided by cladding assemblies on exterior walls.
It must be noted, in using MI values to determine the appropriate levels of protection from precipitation, that weather conditions can vary markedly within a relatively small geographical area. Although the values provided in the Table give a good indication of the average conditions within a particular region, some caution must be exercised when applying them to a locality that is outside the region where the weather station is located.
MI is calculated from a wetting index (WI) and a drying index (DI).
Wetting Index (WI)
To define, quantitatively, the rainwater load on a wall, wind speed and wind direction have to be taken into consideration in addition to rainfall, along with factors that can affect exposure, such as nearby buildings, vegetation and topography. Quantitative determination of load, including wind speed and wind direction, can be done. However, due to limited weather data, it is not currently possible to provide this information for most of the locations identified in the Table.
This lack of information, however, has been shown to be non-critical for the purpose of classifying locations
in terms of severity of rain load. The results of the research indicated that simple annual rainfall is as good
an indicator as any for describing rainwater load. That is to say, for Canadian locations, and especially once drying is accounted for, the additional sensitivity provided by hourly directional rainfall values does not have a significant effect on the order in which locations appear when listed from wet to dry.
Consequently, the wetting index (WI) is based on annual rainfall and is normalized based on 1000 mm.
C-6 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B Appendix C
Drying Index (DI)
Temperature and relative humidity together define the drying capacity of ambient air. Based on simple psychrometrics, values were derived for the locations listed in the Table using annual average drying capacity normalized based on the drying capacity at Lytton, B.C. The resultant values are referred to as drying indices (DI).
Determination of Moisture Index (MI)
The relationship between WI and DI to correctly define moisture loading on a wall is not known. The MI values provided in the Table are based on the root mean square values of WI and 1-DI, with those values equally weighted. This is illustrated in Figure C-1. The resultant MI values are sufficiently consistent with industry’s understanding of climate severity with respect to moisture loading as to allow limits to be identified for the purpose of specifying where additional protection from precipitation is required.
Figure C-1
Derivation of moisture index (MI) based on normalized values for wetting index (WI) and drying index (DI)
Note to Figure C-1:
(1) MI equals the hypotenuse of the triangle defined by WIN and 1-DIN
Driving Rain Wind Pressure (DRWP)
The presence of rainwater on the face of a building, with or without wind, must be addressed in the design and construction of the building envelope so as to minimize the entry of water into the assembly. Wind pressure on the windward faces of a building will promote the flow of water through any open joints or cracks in the facade.
Driving rain wind pressure (DRWP) is the wind load that is coincident with rain, measured or calculated at a height of 10 m. The values provided in the Table represent the loads for which there is 1 chance in 5 of being
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B C-7
   1
MI > 1
MI = 1
MI < 1
0low high1
Rain load: WI N
EG02066A
    MI = WIN2 + (1 - DIN)2
   Drying capacity: 1 - DIN high low
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Appendix C Division B
reached or exceeded in any one year, or a probability of 20% within any one year. Approximate adjustments for height can be made using the values for Ce given in Sentence 4.1.7.3.(5) as a multiplier.
Because of inaccuracies in developing the DRWP values related to the averaging of extreme wind pressures, the actual heights of recording anemometers, and the use of estimated rather than measured rainfall values, the values are considered to be higher than actual loads.(8)(9) Thus the actual probability of reaching or exceeding the DRWP in a particular location is less than 20% per year and these values can be considered to be conservative.
DRWP can be used to determine the height to which wind will drive rainwater up enclosed vertical conduits. This provides a conservative estimate of the height needed for fins in window extrusions and end dams on flashings to control water ingress. This height can be calculated as:
Note that the pressure difference across the building envelope may be augmented by internal pressures induced in the building interior by the wind. These additional pressures can be estimated using the information provided in the Commentary entitled Wind Load and Effects of the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
Wind Effects
All structures need to be designed to ensure that the main structural system and all secondary components, such as cladding and appurtenances, will withstand the pressures and suctions caused by the strongest wind likely to blow at that location in many years. Some flexible structures, such as tall buildings, slender towers and bridges, also need to be designed to minimize excessive wind-induced oscillations or vibrations.
At any time, the wind acting upon a structure can be treated as a mean or time-averaged component and as a gust or unsteady component. For a small structure, which is completely enveloped by wind gusts, it is only the peak gust velocity that needs to be considered. For a large structure, the wind gusts are not well correlated over its different parts and the effects of individual gusts become less significant. The “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B)” evaluates the mean pressure acting on a structure, provides appropriate adjustments for building height and exposure and for the influence of the surrounding terrain and topography (including wind speed-up for hills), and then incorporates the effects of wind gusts by means of the gust factor, which varies according to the type of structure and the size of the area over which the pressure acts.
The wind speeds and corresponding velocity pressures used in the Code are regionally representative or reference values. The reference wind speeds are nominal one-hour averages of wind speeds representative of the 10 m height in flat open terrain corresponding to Exposure A or open terrain in the terminology of the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).” The reference wind speeds and wind velocity pressures are based on long-term wind records observed at a large number of weather stations across Canada.
Reference wind velocity pressures in previous versions of the Code since 1961 were based mostly on records of hourly averaged wind speeds (i.e. the number of miles of wind passing an anemometer in an hour) from over 100 stations with 10 to 22 years of observations ending in the 1950s. The wind pressure values derived from these measurements represented true hourly wind pressures.
The reference wind velocity pressures were reviewed and updated for the 2010 edition of the Code. The primary data set used for the analysis comprised wind records compiled from about 135 stations with hourly averaged wind speeds and from 465 stations with aviation (one- or two-minute average) speeds or surface weather (ten-minute average) speeds observed once per hour at the top of the hour; the periods of record used ranged from 10 to 54 years. In addition, peak wind gust records from 400 stations with periods of record ranging from 10 to 43 years were used. Peak wind gusts (gust durations of approximately 3 to 7 seconds) were used to supplement the primary once-per-hour observations in the analysis.
Several steps were involved in updating the reference wind values. Where needed, speeds were adjusted to represent the standard anemometer height above ground of 10 m. The data from years when the anemometer at a station was installed on the top of a lighthouse or building were eliminated from the analysis since it
is impractical to adjust for the effects of wind flow over the structure. (Most anemometers were moved to
10 m towers by the 1960s.) Wind speeds of the various observation types—hourly averaged, aviation, surface weather and peak wind gust—were adjusted to account for different measure durations to represent a one-hour averaging period and to account for differences in the surface roughness of flat open terrain at observing stations.
C-8 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B Appendix C
The annual maximum wind speed data was fitted to the Gumbel distribution using the method of moments(4) to calculate hourly wind speeds having the annual probability of occurrence of 1-in-10 and 1-in-50 (10-year and 50-year return periods). The values were plotted on maps, then analyzed and abstracted for the locations in Table C-2.
The wind velocity pressures, q, were calculated in Pascals using the following equation:
where ρ is an average air density for the windy months of the year and V is wind speed in metres per second. While air density depends on both air temperature and atmospheric pressure, the density of dry air at 0°C and standard atmospheric pressure of 1.2929 kg/m3 was used as an average value for the wind pressure calculations. As explained by Boyd(10), this value is within 10% of the monthly average air densities for most of Canada in the windy part of the year.
As a result of the updating procedure, the 1-in-50 reference wind velocity pressures remain unchanged for most of the locations listed in Table C-2; both increases and decreases were noted for the remaining locations. Many of the decreases resulted from the fact that anemometers at most of the stations used in the previous analysis were installed on lighthouses, airport hangers and other structures. Wind speeds on the tops of buildings are often much higher compared to those registered by a standard 10 m tower. Eliminating anemometer data recorded on the tops of buildings from the analysis resulted in lower values at several locations.
Hourly wind speeds that have 1 chance in 10 and 50* of being exceeded in any one year were analyzed using the Gumbel extreme value distribution fitted using the method of moments with correction for sample size. Values of the 1-in-30-year wind speeds for locations in the Table were estimated from a mapping analysis of wind speeds. The 1-in-10- and 1-in-50-year speeds were then computed from the 1-in-30-year speeds using a map of the dispersion parameter that occurs in the Gumbel analysis.(4)
Table C-1 has been arranged to give pressures to the nearest one-hundredth of a kPa and their corresponding wind speeds. The value of “q” in kPa is assumed to be equal to 0.00064645 V2, where V is given in m/s.
* Wind speeds that have a one-in-”n”-year chance of being exceeded in any year can be computed from the one-in-10 and one-in-50 return values in the Table using the following equation:
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B C-9
   © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Appendix C
Division B
Table C-1 Wind Speeds
qVqVqVqV
kPa m/s
0.15 15.2 0.16 15.7 0.17 16.2 0.18 16.7 0.19 17.1 0.20 17.6 0.21 18.0 0.22 18.4 0.23 18.9 0.24 19.3 0.25 19.7 0.26 20.1 0.27 20.4 0.28 20.8 0.29 21.2 0.30 21.5 0.31 21.9 0.32 22.2 0.33 22.6 0.34 22.9 0.35 23.3 0.36 23.6 0.37 23.9 0.38 24.2 0.39 24.6 0.40 24.9 0.41 25.2 0.42 25.5 0.43 25.8 0.44 26.1 0.45 26.4 0.46 26.7 0.47 27.0 0.48 27.2 0.49 27.5 0.50 27.8 0.51 28.1 0.52 28.4
kPa m/s
0.53 28.6 0.54 28.9 0.55 29.2 0.56 29.4 0.57 29.7 0.58 30.0 0.59 30.2 0.60 30.5 0.61 30.7 0.62 31.0 0.63 31.2 0.64 31.5 0.65 31.7 0.66 32.0 0.67 32.2 0.68 32.4 0.69 32.7 0.70 32.9 0.71 33.1 0.72 33.4 0.73 33.6 0.74 33.8 0.75 34.1 0.76 34.3 0.77 34.5 0.78 34.7 0.79 35.0 0.80 35.2 0.81 35.4 0.82 35.6 0.83 35.8 0.84 36.0 0.85 36.3 0.86 36.5 0.87 36.7 0.88 36.9 0.89 37.1 0.90 37.3
kPa m/s
0.91 37.5 0.92 37.7 0.93 37.9 0.94 38.1 0.95 38.3 0.96 38.5 0.97 38.7 0.98 38.9 0.99 39.1 1.00 39.3 1.01 39.5 1.02 39.7 1.03 39.9 1.04 40.1 1.05 40.3 1.06 40.5 1.07 40.7 1.08 40.9 1.09 41.1 1.10 41.3 1.11 41.4 1.12 41.6 1.13 41.8 1.14 42.0 1.15 42.2 1.16 42.4 1.17 42.5 1.18 42.7 1.19 42.9 1.20 43.1 1.21 43.3 1.22 43.4 1.23 43.6 1.24 43.8 1.25 44.0 1.26 44.1 1.27 44.3 1.28 44.5
kPa m/s
1.29 44.7 1.30 44.8 1.31 45.0 1.32 45.2 1.33 45.4 1.34 45.5 1.35 45.7 1.36 45.9 1.37 46.0 1.38 46.2 1.39 46.4 1.40 46.5 1.41 46.7 1.42 46.9 1.43 47.0 1.44 47.2 1.45 47.4 1.46 47.5 1.47 47.7 1.48 47.8 1.49 48.0 1.50 48.2 1.51 48.3 1.52 48.5 1.53 48.6 1.54 48.8 1.55 49.0 1.56 49.1 1.57 49.3 1.58 49.4 1.59 49.6 1.60 49.7 1.61 49.9 1.62 50.1 1.63 50.2 1.64 50.4 1.65 50.5 1.66 50.7
C-10 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
   © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
Appendix C
Province and Location
British Columbia
100 Mile House Abbotsford Agassiz
Alberni Ashcroft Bamfield Beatton River Bella Bella Bella Coola Burns Lake Cache Creek Campbell River Carmi Castlegar Chetwynd Chilliwack Comox Courtenay Cranbrook Crescent Valley Crofton Dawson Creek Dease Lake Dog Creek Duncan
Elko
Fernie
Fort Nelson Fort St. John Glacier
Gold River Golden Grand Forks Greenwood Hope
Jordan River Kamloops Kaslo
Elev.,
Days 1% Dry Wet Below
Min. Rain,
Rain, 1/50, mm Index Ppn.,
m 2.5% °C
°C °C
-32 29 -10 29 -11 31
°C 18°C
17 5030 20 2860 21 2750 19 3100 20 3700 17 3080 18 6300 18 3180 19 3560 17 5450 20 3700 18 3000 19 4750 20 3580 18 5500 20 2780 18 3100 18 3100 18 4400 20 3650 19 2880 18 5900 15 6730 17 4800 19 2980 19 4600 19 4750 18 6710 18 5750 17 5800 18 3230 17 4750 20 3820 20 4100 20 3000 17 2900 20 3450 19 3830
mm mm mm
10 48 300 0.44 425 12 112 1525 1.59 1600 8 128 1650 1.71 1700 10 144 1900 2.00 2000
10 37 250 0.25 300 13 170 2870 2.96 2890 15 64 330 0.53 450 13 145 2715 2.82 2800 10 140 1500 1.85 1700 12 54 300 0.56 450 10 37 250 0.25 300 10 116 1500 1.59 1600 10 64 325 0.38 550 10 54 560 0.64 700 15 70 400 0.58 625
8 139 1625 1.68 1700 10 106 1175 1.28 1200 10 106 1400 1.49 1450 12 59 275 0.30 400 10 54 675 0.75 850 8 86 925 1.06 950 18 75 325 0.49 475 10 45 265 0.55 425 10 48 275 0.41 375
8 103 1000 1.13 1050 13 64 440 0.48 650 13 118 860 0.88 1175 15 70 325 0.56 450 15 72 320 0.50 475 10 70 625 0.83 1500 13 200 2730 2.80 2850 10 55 325 0.57 500 10 48 390 0.47 475 10 64 430 0.51 550
8 139 1825 1.88 1900 12 170 2300 2.37 2370 13 42 225 0.23 275 10 55 660 0.82 850
sures, Ss Pa, 1/5
60 2.6 160 2.0 160 2.4 220 2.6
80 1.7 280 1.0 80 3.3 350 2.6 350 4.5 100 3.4 80 1.7 260 2.8 60 3.6 60 4.2 60 2.4 160 2.2 260 2.4 260 2.4 100 3.0 80 4.2 160 1.8 100 2.5 380 2.8 100 1.8 180 1.8 100 3.6 100 4.5 80 2.4 100 2.8 80 9.4 250 2.8 100 3.7 80 2.8 80 3.6 140 2.8 250 1.2 80 1.8 80 2.8
Sr 1/10 1/50
0.3 0.27 0.35 0.3 0.34 0.44 0.7 0.36 0.47 0.4 0.25 0.32 0.1 0.29 0.38 0.4 0.39 0.50 0.1 0.23 0.30 0.8 0.39 0.50 0.8 0.30 0.39 0.2 0.30 0.39 0.2 0.30 0.39 0.4 0.40 0.52 0.2 0.29 0.38 0.1 0.27 0.34 0.2 0.31 0.40 0.3 0.36 0.47 0.4 0.40 0.52 0.4 0.40 0.52 0.2 0.25 0.33 0.1 0.25 0.33 0.2 0.31 0.40 0.2 0.31 0.40 0.1 0.23 0.30 0.2 0.27 0.35 0.4 0.30 0.39 0.2 0.31 0.40 0.2 0.31 0.40 0.1 0.23 0.30 0.1 0.30 0.39 0.2 0.25 0.32 0.6 0.25 0.32 0.2 0.27 0.35 0.1 0.31 0.40 0.1 0.31 0.40 0.7 0.48 0.63 0.4 0.43 0.55 0.2 0.31 0.40 0.1 0.24 0.31
1040 70 15
-30 -8 -9
Table C-2
Climatic Design Data for Selected Locations in Canada
Design Temperature January July 2.5%
De- One gree- 15 Day
Ann. Ann. Rain, Moist. Tot.
Driv- ing Rain Wind Pres-
Snow Load, kPa, 1/50
Hourly Wind Pressures, kPa
12 -5 -8 31 305 -24 -27 34 20 -2 -4 23
840
25
40
755
455
20
845
430
605
10
15 -7 -9 27 10 -7 -9 28
-37 -39 26 -5 -7 23 -14 -18 27 -31 -34 26 -24 -27 34 -5 -7 26 -24 -26 31 -18 -20 32 -35 -38 27 -9 -11 30
910 -26 -28 32 585 -18 -20 31 5 -4 -6 28
665 -38 800 -37 450 -28
-40 27 -40 24 -30 29
10 -6 -8 28 1065 -28 -31 30 1010 -27 -30 30
465 -39 -42 28
685 -35 -37 26 1145 -27 -30 27 120 -8 -11 31 790 -27 -30 30 565 -19 -22 34 745 -20 -23 34 40 -13 -15 31 20 -1 -3 22 355 -23 -25 34 545 -17 -20 30
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division B C-11
              © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Appendix C
Division B
C-12
Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Province and Location
Kelowna Kimberley Kitimat Plant Kitimat Townsite Ladysmith Langford Lillooet
Lytton
Mackenzie
Masset
McBride
McLeod Lake
Merritt
Mission City
Montrose
Nakusp
Nanaimo
Nelson
Ocean Falls
Osoyoos
Parksville
Penticton
Port Alberni
Port Alice
Port Hardy
Port McNeill
Port Renfrew
Powell River
Prince George
Prince Rupert
Princeton
Qualicum Beach
QueenCharlotteCity 35 -6 -8
Quesnel Revelstoke Salmon Arm Sandspit Sechelt Sidney Smith River
475 -31 -33 440 -20 -23 425 -19 -24
5 -4 -6 25 -6 -8 10 -4 -6 660 -45 -47
Elev.,
Min. Rain,
Design Temperature January July 2.5%
De- One gree- 15 Day
Ann.
Driv- Ann. ing Rain
Moist. Tot. Wind
Snow Load, kPa, 1/50
Hourly Wind Pressures, kPa
m 2.5%
°C °C
°C °C
33 20 31 18 25 16 24 16 27 19 27 19 34 20 35 20 27 17 17 15 29 18 27 17 34 20 30 20 32 20 31 20 27 19 31 20 23 17 35 21 26 19 33 20 31 19 26 17 20 16 22 17 24 17 26 18 28 18 19 15 33 19 27 19 21 16 30 17 31 19 33 21 18 15 27 20 26 18 26 17
18°C
3400
4650
3750
3900
3000
2750
3400
3300
5550
3700
4980
5450
3900
2850
3600
3560
3000
3500
3400
3100
3200
3350
3100
3010
3440
3410
2900
3100
4720
3900
4250
3200
3520
4650
4000
3650
3450
2680
2850
7100
mm
12 12 13 13
mm
43 260 59 350
mm
Pres- sures, Pa, 1/5
Ss Sr 1/10 1/50
1.7 0.1 0.31 0.40 3.0 0.2 0.25 0.33 5.5 0.8 0.37 0.48 6.5 0.8 0.37 0.48 2.4 0.4 0.31 0.40 1.8 0.3 0.31 0.40 2.1 0.1 0.34 0.44 2.8 0.3 0.33 0.43 5.1 0.2 0.25 0.32 1.8 0.4 0.48 0.61 4.3 0.2 0.27 0.35 4.1 0.2 0.25 0.32 1.8 0.3 0.34 0.44 2.4 0.3 0.33 0.43 4.1 0.1 0.27 0.35 4.4 0.1 0.25 0.33 2.1 0.4 0.39 0.50 4.2 0.1 0.25 0.33 3.9 0.8 0.46 0.59 1.1 0.1 0.31 0.40 2.0 0.4 0.39 0.50 1.3 0.1 0.35 0.45 2.6 0.4 0.25 0.32 1.1 0.4 0.25 0.32 0.9 0.4 0.40 0.52 1.1 0.4 0.40 0.52 1.1 0.4 0.40 0.52 1.7 0.4 0.39 0.51 3.4 0.2 0.29 0.37 1.9 0.4 0.42 0.54 2.9 0.6 0.28 0.36 2.0 0.4 0.41 0.53 1.8 0.4 0.48 0.61 3.0 0.1 0.24 0.31 7.2 0.1 0.25 0.32 3.5 0.1 0.30 0.39 1.8 0.4 0.60 0.78 1.8 0.4 0.37 0.48 1.1 0.2 0.33 0.42 2.8 0.1 0.23 0.30
350 -17 -20 1090 -25 -27 15 -16 -18 130 -16 -18
80 -7 -9
193
0.29 0.38 2.19 2.00 1.20 1.22 0.31 0.33 0.54 1.54 0.64 0.54 0.24 1.71 0.56 0.78 1.13 0.57 4.21 0.28 1.31 0.28 2.00 3.38 1.92 1.89 3.64 1.27 0.58 2.84 0.35 1.31 1.47 0.51 0.80 0.47 1.47 1.27 0.97 0.58
325 80
500 100 2500 220 2300 220 1160 180 1125 220
350 100 425 80 650 60 1400 400 650 60 650 60 310 80 1700 160 700 60 850 60 1050 200 700 60 4300 350 310 60 1250 200 300 60 2000 240 3340 220 1850 220 1850 260 3675 270 1200 220 600 80 2900 240 350 80 1250 200 1350 360 525 80 950 80 525 80 1350 500 1200 160 850 160 500 40
80 -4 -6 245 -21 -23 325 -17 -20 765 -34 -38 10 -5 -7 730 -29 -32 695 -35 -37 570 -24 -27
 9
10
10
10
13
13
10
 8
13
10
10
10
10
13
10
10
10
10
13
13
13
13
10
15
13
10
10
13
10
13
13
13
10
 8
10
45 -9 -11 615 -16 -18 445 -20 -22 15 -6 -8 600 -18 -20
10 -10 -12 285 -14 -17 40 -6 -8 350 -15 -17 15 -5 -8 25 -3 -6
5 -5 -7
5 -5 -7 20 -3 -5 10 -7 -9 580 -32 -36 20 -13 -15 655 -24 -29 10 -7 -9
Days 1% Dry Wet Below
Rain,
Rain, 1/50, mm Index Ppn.,
Table C-2 (Continued)
171 8 97
     2100
     1900
     1075
135 1095 70 300 70 330 50 350 80 1350 54 475 50 350 54 240 123 1650 54 480 60 650 91 1000 59 460 260 4150 48 275 91 1200 48 275 161 1900 200 3300 150 1775 128 1750 200 3600 80 1150 54 425 160 2750 43 235 96 1200 110 1300 50 380 55 625 48 400 86 1300 75 1140 96 825 64 300
              © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
Appendix C
Province and Location
Smithers
Sooke
Squamish Stewart
Tahsis
Taylor
Terrace
Tofino
Trail
Ucluelet Vancouver Region
Burnaby (Simon Fraser Univ.)
Cloverdale Haney
Ladner
Langley
New Westminster North Vancouver Richmond
Surrey (88 Ave & 156 St.)
Vancouver (City Hall)
Vancouver (Granville & 41 Ave)
West Vancouver Vernon
Victoria Region
Victoria (Gonzales Hts)
Victoria (Mt Tolmie)
Victoria Whistler
White Rock Williams Lake Youbou
Alberta
Athabasca Banff Barrhead
Days 1% Dry Wet Below
Moist. Tot. Wind
Elev.,
Min. Rain,
mm mm mm
13 60 325 0.60 500 9 130 1250 1.37 1280 10 140 2050 2.12 2200 13 135 1300 1.47 1900 13 200 3845 3.91 3900
15 72 320 0.49 450 13 120 950 1.08 1150 13 193 3275 3.36 3300 10 54 580 0.65 700 13 180 3175 3.26 3200
10 150 1850 1.93 1950
10 112 1350 1.44 1400 10 134 1800 1.86 1950 10 80 1000 1.14 1050 10 112 1450 1.53 1500 10 134 1500 1.59 1575 12 150 2000 2.07 2100 10 86 1070 1.20 1100
10 128 1500 1.58 1575 10 112 1325 1.44 1400
10 107 1325 1.44 1400
12 150 1600 1.69 1700 13 43 350 0.41 400
9 91 600 0.82 625
9 91 775 0.96 800
8 91 800 0.98 825 10 85 845 0.99 1215 10 80 1065 1.17 1100 10 48 350 0.47 425 10 161 2000 2.09 2100
18 86 370 0.58 480 18 65 300 0.58 500 20 86 375 0.58 475
Design Temperature January July 2.5%
De- One gree- 15 Day
Ann.
Driv- Ann. ing Rain
Snow Load, kPa, 1/50
Hourly Wind Pressures, kPa
m 2.5% °C
500 -29
20 -1 -3
5 -9 -11 10 -17 -20 25 -4 -6
515 -35 -37 60 -19 -21 10 -2 -4
440 -14 -17 5 -2 -4
330 -7 -9
10 -8 -10 10 -9 -11 3 -6 -8 15 -8 -10 10 -8 -10
135 -7 -9 5 -7 -9
90 -8 -10
40 -7 -9
120 -6 -8
45 -7 -9 405 -20 -23
65 -4 -6
125 -6 -8
10 -4 -6 665 -17 -20 30 -5 -7 615 -30 -33
200 -5 -8
515 -35 -38 1400 -31 -33 645 -33 -36
Rain,
Rain, 1/50, mm Index Ppn.,
Pres-
sures, Ss
Pa, 1/5
120 3.5 220 1.3 160 2.8 180 7.9 300 1.1 100 2.3 200 5.4 300 1.1
60 4.1 280 1.0
160 2.9
160 2.5 160 2.4 160 1.3 160 2.4 160 2.3 160 3.0 160 1.5
160 2.4 160 1.8
160 1.9
160 2.4 80 2.2
220 1.5
220 2.1
220 1.1 160 9.5 160 2.0
80 2.4 200 3.5
80 1.5 120 3.3 100 1.7
Sr 1/10 1/50
0.2 0.31 0.40 0.3 0.37 0.48 0.7 0.39 0.50 0.8 0.28 0.36 0.4 0.26 0.34 0.1 0.31 0.40 0.6 0.28 0.36 0.4 0.53 0.68 0.1 0.27 0.35 0.4 0.53 0.68
0.7 0.36 0.47
0.2 0.34 0.44 0.2 0.34 0.44 0.2 0.36 0.46 0.2 0.34 0.44 0.2 0.34 0.44 0.3 0.35 0.45 0.2 0.35 0.45
0.3 0.34 0.44 0.2 0.35 0.45
0.3 0.35 0.45
0.2 0.37 0.48 0.1 0.31 0.40
0.3 0.44 0.57
0.3 0.48 0.63
0.2 0.44 0.57 0.9 0.25 0.32 0.2 0.34 0.44 0.2 0.27 0.35 0.7 0.25 0.32
0.1 0.28 0.36 0.1 0.25 0.32 0.1 0.34 0.44
°C °C °C
18°C
5040
2900
2950
4350
3150
5720
4150
3150
3600
3120
3100
2700
2840
2600
2700
2800
2910
2800
2750 2825
2925
2950 3600
2700
2700
2650
4180
2620
4400
3050
6000
5500
5740
-31 26 17 21 16
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division B C-13
29 20 25 16 26 18 26 18 27 17 20 16 33 20 18 16
25 17
29 20 30 20 27 19 29 20 29 19 26 19 27 19
29 20 28 20
28 20
28 19 33 20
24 17
24 16
24 17 30 20 25 20 29 17 31 19
27 19 27 16 27 19
Table C-2 (Continued)
               © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Appendix C
Division B
C-14
Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Province and Location Elev.,
m 2.5% 1%
°C °C
Beaverlodge 730 -36 -39 Brooks 760 -32 -34 Calgary 1045 -30 -32 Campsie 660 -33 -36 Camrose 740 -33 -35 Canmore 1320 -31 -33 Cardston 1130 -29 -32 Claresholm 1030 -30 -32 Cold Lake 540 -35 -38 Coleman 1320 -31 -34 Coronation 790 -32 -34 Cowley 1175 -29 -32 Drumheller 685 -32 -34 Edmonton 645 -30 -33 Edson 920 -34 -37 Embarras Portage 220 -41 -43 Fairview 670 -37 -40 Fort MacLeod 945 -30 -32 Fort McMurray 255 -38 -40 Fort Saskatchewan 610 -32 -35 Fort Vermilion 270 -41 -43 Grande Prairie 650 -36 -39 Habay 335 -41 -43 Hardisty 615 -33 -36 High River 1040 -31 -32 Hinton 990 -34 -38 Jasper 1060 -31 -34 Keg River 420 -40 -42 Lac la Biche 560 -35 -38 Lacombe 855 -33 -36 Lethbridge 910 -30 -32 Manning 465 -39 -41 Medicine Hat 705 -31 -34 Peace River 330 -37 -40 Pincher Creek 1130 -29 -32 Ranfurly 670 -34 -37 Red Deer 855 -32 -35 RockyMountainHouse 985 -32 -34 Slave Lake 590 -35 -38 Stettler 820 -32 -34
Days Dry Wet Below
Min. Rain, Rain, Moist. Tot. Wind Rain, 1/50, mm Index Ppn., Pres-
Ss Sr 1/10 1/50
2.4 0.1 0.28 0.36 1.2 0.1 0.40 0.52 1.1 0.1 0.37 0.48 1.7 0.1 0.34 0.44 2.0 0.1 0.30 0.39 3.2 0.1 0.29 0.37 1.5 0.1 0.56 0.72 1.3 0.1 0.45 0.58 1.7 0.1 0.29 0.38 2.7 0.3 0.48 0.63 1.9 0.1 0.29 0.37 1.6 0.1 0.78 1.01 1.2 0.1 0.34 0.44 1.7 0.1 0.35 0.45 2.1 0.1 0.36 0.46 2.2 0.1 0.29 0.37 2.4 0.1 0.27 0.35 1.2 0.1 0.53 0.68 1.5 0.1 0.27 0.35 1.6 0.1 0.33 0.43 2.1 0.1 0.23 0.30 2.2 0.1 0.33 0.43 2.4 0.1 0.23 0.30 1.7 0.1 0.28 0.36 1.3 0.1 0.50 0.65 2.6 0.1 0.36 0.46 3.0 0.1 0.25 0.32 2.4 0.1 0.23 0.30 1.6 0.1 0.28 0.36 1.9 0.1 0.31 0.40 1.2 0.1 0.51 0.66 2.3 0.1 0.23 0.30 1.1 0.1 0.37 0.48 2.2 0.1 0.25 0.32 1.5 0.1 0.75 0.96 1.9 0.1 0.28 0.36 1.8 0.1 0.31 0.40 1.9 0.1 0.28 0.36 1.9 0.1 0.29 0.37 1.9 0.1 0.28 0.36
Design Temperature January July 2.5%
Table C-2 (Continued)
De- One
gree- 15 Day Ann.
Driv- Ann. ing Rain
Snow Load, kPa, 1/50
Hourly Wind Pressures, kPa
°C °C
28 18 32 20 28 17 27 19 29 19 28 17 30 19 30 18 28 19 29 18 30 19 29 18 30 18 28 19 27 18 28 19 27 18 31 19 28 19 28 19 28 18 27 18 28 18 30 19 28 17 27 17 28 17 28 18 28 19 28 19 31 19 27 18 32 19 27 18 29 18 29 19 28 19 27 18 26 19 30 19
18°C
5700
4880
5000
5750
5500
5400
4700
4680
5860
5210
5640
4810
5050
5120
5750
7100
5840
4600
6250
5420
6700
5790
6750
5640
4900
5500
5300
6520
6100
5500
4500
6300
4540
6050
4740
5700
5550
5640
5850
5300
mm mm
20 86 315 0.49 18 86 260 0.26 23 103 325 0.37 20 86 375 0.58 20 86 355 0.54 18 86 325 0.57 20 108 340 0.38 15 97 310 0.35 18 81 320 0.53 15 86 400 0.46 20 92 300 0.45 15 92 310 0.36 20 86 300 0.39 23 97 360 0.48 18 81 450 0.63 12 81 250 0.56 15 86 330 0.51 16 97 300 0.35 13 86 340 0.52 20 86 350 0.49 13 70 250 0.53 20 86 315 0.49 13 70 275 0.54 20 81 325 0.48 18 97 300 0.36 13 81 375 0.55 12 76 300 0.52 13 70 310 0.54 15 86 375 0.58 23 92 350 0.53 20 97 250 0.26 13 76 280 0.49 23 92 250 0.25 15 81 300 0.50 16 103 325 0.37 18 92 325 0.50 20 97 375 0.54 20 92 425 0.59 15 81 380 0.62 20 97 370 0.53
mm sures, Pa, 1/5
470 100 340 220 425 220 475 100 470 160 500 120 550 140 440 200 430 140 550 120 400 200 525 140 375 220 460 160 570 100 390 80 450 100 425 180 460 60 425 140 380 60 450 120 425 60 425 140 425 200 500 100 400 80 450 80 475 80 450 180 390 200 390 80 325 220 390 100 575 140 420 100 475 200 550 120 500 80 450 200
              © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
Appendix C
Province and Location Elev.,
m 2.5% 1%
°C °C
Stony Plain 710 -32 -35 Suffield 755 -31 -34 Taber 815 -31 -33 Turner Valley 1215 -31 -32 Valleyview 700 -37 -40 Vegreville 635 -34 -37 Vermilion 580 -35 -38 Wagner 585 -35 -38 Wainwright 675 -33 -36 Wetaskiwin 760 -33 -35 Whitecourt 690 -33 -36 Wimborne 975 -31 -34
Saskatchewan
Assiniboia 740 -32 -34 Battrum 700 -32 -34 Biggar 645 -34 -36 Broadview 600 -34 -35 Dafoe 530 -35 -37 Dundurn 525 -35 -37 Estevan 565 -32 -34 Hudson Bay 370 -36 -38 Humboldt 565 -36 -38 Island Falls 305 -39 -41 Kamsack 455 -34 -37 Kindersley 685 -33 -35 Lloydminster 645 -34 -37 Maple Creek 765 -31 -34 Meadow Lake 480 -38 -40 Melfort 455 -36 -38 Melville 550 -34 -36 Moose Jaw 545 -32 -34 Nipawin 365 -37 -39 North Battleford 545 -34 -36 Prince Albert 435 -37 -40 Qu’Appelle 645 -34 -36 Regina 575 -34 -36 Rosetown 595 -34 -36 Saskatoon 500 -35 -37 Scott 645 -34 -36 Strasbourg 545 -34 -36
De- gree- Days
Dry Wet Below
15 Min.
Day Ann. Rain, Rain,
Ann. ing Rain Moist. Tot. Wind Index Ppn., Pres-
Design Temperature January July 2.5%
One Driv-
Snow Load, kPa, 1/50
Hourly Wind Pressures, kPa
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division B C-15
°C °C
28 19 32 20 31 19 28 17 27 18 29 19 29 19 26 19 29 19 29 19 27 19 29 18
31 21 32 20 30 20 30 21 29 21 30 21 32 22 29 21 28 21 27 20 29 22 31 20 28 20 31 20 28 20 28 21 29 21 31 21 28 21 29 20 28 21 30 22 31 21 31 20 30 21 30 20 30 22
18°C
5300
4770
4580
5220
5600
5780
5740
5850
5700
5500
5650
5310
5180
5080
5720
5760
5860
5600
5340
6280
6000
7100
6040
5550
5880
4780
6280
6050
5880
5270
6300
5900
6100
5620
5600
5620
5700
5960
5600
Rain, 1/50, mm mm mm
mm sures, Ss Pa, 1/5
540 120 1.7 325 220 1.3 370 200 1.2 600 180 1.4 490 80 2.3 410 100 1.9 410 100 1.7 500 80 1.9 425 120 2.0 500 160 2.0 550 80 1.9 450 200 1.6
375 240 1.6 350 260 1.2 350 180 2.1 420 160 1.7 380 140 1.7 380 180 1.5 420 200 1.6 450 80 2.0 375 140 2.1 510 80 2.1 450 120 2.1 325 200 1.4 430 120 2.0 380 220 1.2 450 120 1.7 410 120 2.1 410 160 1.7 360 200 1.4 450 100 2.0 370 120 1.7 410 140 1.9 430 160 1.7 365 200 1.4 330 200 1.7 350 160 1.7 360 140 1.9 390 180 1.5
Sr 1/10 1/50
0.1 0.35 0.45 0.1 0.38 0.49 0.1 0.48 0.63 0.1 0.50 0.65 0.1 0.33 0.42 0.1 0.28 0.36 0.1 0.28 0.36 0.1 0.29 0.37 0.1 0.28 0.36 0.1 0.30 0.39 0.1 0.29 0.37 0.1 0.31 0.40
0.1 0.38 0.49 0.1 0.42 0.54 0.1 0.35 0.45 0.1 0.36 0.46 0.1 0.29 0.37 0.1 0.36 0.46 0.1 0.40 0.52 0.1 0.29 0.37 0.1 0.30 0.39 0.1 0.27 0.35 0.2 0.31 0.40 0.1 0.36 0.46 0.1 0.31 0.40 0.1 0.35 0.45 0.1 0.31 0.40 0.1 0.28 0.36 0.1 0.31 0.40 0.1 0.40 0.52 0.1 0.29 0.38 0.1 0.36 0.46 0.1 0.29 0.38 0.1 0.33 0.42 0.1 0.38 0.49 0.1 0.38 0.49 0.1 0.33 0.43 0.1 0.35 0.45 0.1 0.33 0.42
Table C-2 (Continued)
23 97 410 20 86 230 20 92 260 20 97 350 18 86 360 18 86 325 18 86 310 15 81 380 20 81 310 23 86 400 20 97 440 23 92 325
25 81 290 23 81 270 23 81 270 25 103 320 20 92 300 23 86 275 28 92 330 20 81 340 20 86 320 18 76 370 20 97 360 23 81 260 18 81 310 25 81 275 18 81 320 20 81 310 23 97 340 25 86 270 20 76 340 20 81 280 20 81 320 25 97 340 28 103 300 23 81 260 23 86 265 20 81 270 25 92 300
0.52 0.23 0.26 0.48 0.54 0.50 0.53 0.62 0.47 0.57 0.63 0.48
0.33 0.35 0.39 0.49 0.46 0.40 0.43 0.59 0.48 0.62 0.55 0.38 0.53 0.28 0.53 0.50 0.52 0.33 0.56 0.46 0.51 0.45 0.39 0.37 0.41 0.41 0.41
              © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Appendix C
Division B
Province and Location Elev.,
m 2.5% 1%
°C °C
Swift Current 750 -31 -34 Uranium City 265 -42 -44 Weyburn 575 -33 -35 Yorkton 510 -34 -37
Manitoba
Beausejour 245 -33 -35 Boissevain 510 -32 -34 Brandon 395 -33 -35 Churchill 10 -38 -40 Dauphin 295 -33 -35 Flin Flon 300 -38 -40 Gimli 220 -34 -36 Island Lake 240 -36 -38 Lac du Bonnet 260 -34 -36 Lynn Lake 350 -40 -42 Morden 300 -31 -33 Neepawa 365 -32 -34 Pine Falls 220 -34 -36 Portage la Prairie 260 -31 -33 Rivers 465 -34 -36 Sandilands 365 -32 -34 Selkirk 225 -33 -35 Split Lake 175 -38 -40 Steinbach 270 -33 -35 Swan River 335 -34 -37 The Pas 270 -36 -38 Thompson 205 -40 -43 Virden 435 -33 -35 Winnipeg 235 -33 -35
Ontario
Ailsa Craig 230 -17 -19 Ajax 95 -20 -22 Alexandria 80 -24 -26 Alliston 220 -23 -25 Almonte 120 -26 -28 Armstrong 340 -37 -40 Arnprior 85 -27 -29 Atikokan 400 -33 -35 Attawapiskat 10 -37 -39 Aurora 270 -21 -23
Dry Wet Below Rain, 1/50, mm
Ss Sr 1/10 1/50
1.4 0.1 0.42 0.54 2.0 0.1 0.28 0.36 1.8 0.1 0.37 0.48 1.9 0.1 0.31 0.40
2.0 0.2 0.32 0.41 2.2 0.2 0.40 0.52 2.1 0.2 0.38 0.49 3.0 0.2 0.43 0.55 1.9 0.2 0.31 0.40 2.2 0.2 0.27 0.35 1.9 0.2 0.31 0.40 2.6 0.2 0.29 0.37 1.9 0.2 0.29 0.37 2.4 0.2 0.29 0.37 2.2 0.2 0.40 0.52 2.2 0.2 0.34 0.44 1.9 0.2 0.30 0.39 2.1 0.2 0.36 0.46 2.1 0.2 0.36 0.46 2.2 0.2 0.31 0.40 1.9 0.2 0.32 0.41 2.5 0.2 0.30 0.39 2.0 0.2 0.31 0.40 2.0 0.2 0.27 0.35 2.2 0.2 0.29 0.37 2.4 0.2 0.28 0.36 2.0 0.2 0.36 0.46 1.9 0.2 0.35 0.45
2.2 0.4 0.39 0.50 1.0 0.4 0.37 0.48 2.4 0.4 0.31 0.40 2.0 0.4 0.28 0.36 2.5 0.4 0.32 0.41 2.7 0.4 0.23 0.30 2.5 0.4 0.29 0.37 2.4 0.3 0.23 0.30 2.8 0.3 0.32 0.41 2.0 0.4 0.34 0.44
C-16
Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Design Temperature January July 2.5%
Table C-2 (Continued)
De- One
gree- 15 Day Ann. Days Min. Rain, Rain,
Driv- Ann. ing Rain
Moist. Tot. Wind Index Ppn., Pres- mm sures,
Pa, 1/5
0.34 350 240 0.59 360 100 0.40 400 200 0.54 440 140
0.61 530 180 0.54 510 180 0.56 460 180 0.82 410 260 0.56 490 160 0.59 475 80 0.65 530 180 0.67 550 80 0.65 560 180 0.62 490 100 0.55 520 180 0.58 470 180 0.66 420 180 0.51 525 180 0.56 460 180 0.58 550 180 0.61 500 180 0.66 500 120 0.58 500 180 0.58 500 120 0.59 450 160 0.64 540 100 0.53 460 180 0.58 500 180
0.93 950 180 0.90 825 160 0.91 975 160 0.81 875 120 0.84 800 140 0.75 725 100 0.76 775 140 0.77 760 100 0.79 650 160 0.81 800 140
Snow Load, kPa, 1/50
Hourly Wind Pressures, kPa
°C °C
31 20 26 19 31 23 29 21
29 23 30 23 30 22 25 18 30 22 27 20 29 23 27 20 29 23 27 19 30 24 29 23 28 23 30 23 29 23 29 23 29 23 27 19 29 23 29 22 28 21 27 19 30 23 30 23
30 23 30 23 30 23 29 23 30 23 28 21 30 23 29 22 28 21 30 23
18°C mm mm
5150 25 81 260 7500 12 54 300 5400 28 97 320 6000 23 97 350
5680 28 103 430 5500 28 119 390 5760 28 108 375 8950 12 76 265 5900 28 103 400 6440 18 81 340 5800 28 108 410 6900 18 86 380 5730 28 103 445 7770 18 86 310 5400 28 119 420 5760 28 108 410 5900 25 97 440 5600 28 108 390 5840 28 108 370 5650 28 113 460 5700 28 108 420 7900 18 76 325 5700 28 108 440 6100 20 92 370 6480 18 81 330 7600 18 86 350 5620 28 108 350 5670 28 108 415
3840 25 103 800 3820 23 92 760 4600 25 103 800 4200 28 113 690 4620 25 97 730 6500 23 97 525 4680 23 86 630 5750 25 103 570 7100 18 81 450 4210 28 108 700
             © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
Appendix C
Province and Location
Bancroft
Barrie
Barriefield
Beaverton
Belleville
Belmont
Kitchenuhmay-
koosib (Big Trout Lake)
CFB Borden Bracebridge Bradford Brampton Brantford Brighton Brockville Burk’s Falls Burlington Cambridge Campbellford Cannington Carleton Place Cavan Centralia Chapleau Chatham Chesley Clinton Coboconk Cobourg Cochrane Colborne Collingwood Cornwall Corunna
Deep River Deseronto Dorchester Dorion Dresden Dryden
Elev.,
One
15 Day Ann. Min. Rain, Rain,
Moist. Index
0.85 0.83 0.96 0.87 0.89 0.95
0.75
0.82 0.95 0.80 0.81 0.89 0.90 0.89 0.94 0.91 0.91 0.85 0.85 0.84 0.86 0.95 0.72 0.86 0.94 0.94 0.87 0.90 0.77 0.90 0.87 0.89 0.87 0.82 0.89 0.96 0.77 0.84 0.70
Design Temperature January July 2.5%
Table C-2 (Continued)
De- gree- Days
Driv- Ann. ing Rain
Tot. Wind Ppn., Pres-
Snow Load, kPa, 1/50
Hourly Wind Pressures, kPa
m 2.5% 1% °C °C
365 -28 -31 245 -24 -26 100 -22 -24 240 -24 -26
90 -22 -24 260 -17 -19
215 -38 -40
225 -23 -25 310 -26 -28 240 -23 -25 215 -19 -21 205 -18 -20
95 -21 -23
85 -23 -25 305 -26 -28 80 -17 -19 295 -18 -20 150 -23 -26 255 -24 -26 135 -25 -27 200 -23 -25 260 -17 -19 425 -35 -38 180 -16 -18 275 -19 -21 280 -17 -19 270 -25 -27 90 -21 -23 245 -34 -36 105 -21 -23 190 -21 -23 35 -23 -25 185 -16 -18 145 -29 -32 85 -22 -24 260 -18 -20 200 -33 -35 185 -16 -18 370 -34 -36
Dry Wet Below
Rain, 1/50, mm mm mm
mm sures, Ss Pa, 1/5
900 100 3.1 900 120 2.5 950 160 2.1 950 120 2.2 850 180 1.7 950 180 1.7
600 150 3.2
875 120 2.2 1050 120 3.1 800 120 2.1 820 140 1.3 850 160 1.3 850 160 1.6 975 180 2.2 1010 120 2.7 850 160 1.1 890 160 1.6 850 160 1.7 950 120 2.2 850 160 2.5 850 140 2.0 1000 180 2.3 850 80 3.6 850 180 1.0 1125 140 2.8 1000 160 2.6 950 120 2.5 825 160 1.2 875 80 2.8 850 160 1.6 950 160 2.7 960 180 2.2 800 180 1.0 850 100 2.5 900 160 1.9 950 180 1.9 725 160 2.8 820 180 1.0 700 120 2.4
Sr 1/10 1/50
0.4 0.25 0.32 0.4 0.28 0.36 0.4 0.36 0.47 0.4 0.28 0.36 0.4 0.33 0.43 0.4 0.36 0.47
0.2 0.33 0.42
0.4 0.28 0.36 0.4 0.27 0.35 0.4 0.28 0.36 0.4 0.34 0.44 0.4 0.33 0.42 0.4 0.37 0.48 0.4 0.34 0.44 0.4 0.27 0.35 0.4 0.36 0.46 0.4 0.28 0.36 0.4 0.32 0.41 0.4 0.28 0.36 0.4 0.32 0.41 0.4 0.34 0.44 0.4 0.38 0.49 0.4 0.23 0.30 0.4 0.33 0.43 0.4 0.37 0.48 0.4 0.38 0.49 0.4 0.27 0.35 0.4 0.38 0.49 0.3 0.27 0.35 0.4 0.38 0.49 0.4 0.30 0.39 0.4 0.32 0.41 0.4 0.36 0.47 0.4 0.27 0.35 0.4 0.33 0.43 0.4 0.36 0.47 0.4 0.30 0.39 0.4 0.33 0.43 0.3 0.23 0.30
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division B C-17
°C °C
29 23 29 23 28 23 30 23 29 23 30 24
26 20
29 23 29 23 30 23 30 23 30 23 29 23 29 23 29 22 31 23 29 23 30 23 30 23 30 23 30 23 30 23 27 21 31 24 29 22 29 23 30 23 29 23 29 21 29 23 29 23 30 23 31 24 30 22 29 23 30 24 28 21 31 24 28 22
18°C
4740
4380
3990
4300
3910
3840
7450
4300
4800
4280
4100
3900
4000
4060
5020
3740
4100
4280
4310
4600
4400
3800
5900
3470
4320
4150
4500
3980
6200
3980
4180
4250
3600
4900
4070
3900
5950
3750
5850
25 92 720 28 97 700 23 108 780 25 108 720 23 97 760 25 97 850
18 92 400
28 103 690 25 103 830 28 108 680 28 119 720 23 103 780 23 94 760 25 103 770 25 97 810 23 103 770 25 113 800 25 97 730 25 108 740 25 97 730 25 97 740 25 103 820 20 97 530 28 103 800 28 103 810 25 103 810 25 108 740 23 94 760 20 92 575 23 94 760 28 97 720 25 103 780 25 100 760 23 92 650 23 92 760 28 103 850 20 103 550 28 97 760 25 97 550
             © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Appendix C
Division B
C-18
Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Province and Location Elev.,
m 2.5% 1%
°C °C
Dundalk 525 -22 -24 Dunnville 175 -15 -17 Durham 340 -20 -22 Dutton 225 -16 -18 Earlton 245 -33 -36 Edison 365 -34 -36 Elliot Lake 380 -26 -28 Elmvale 220 -24 -26 Embro 310 -19 -21 Englehart 205 -33 -36 Espanola 220 -25 -27 Exeter 265 -17 -19 Fenelon Falls 260 -25 -27 Fergus 400 -20 -22 Forest 215 -16 -18 Fort Erie 180 -15 -17 Fort Erie (Ridgeway) 190 -15 -17 Fort Frances 340 -33 -35 Gananoque 80 -22 -24 Geraldton 345 -36 -39 Glencoe 215 -16 -18 Goderich 185 -16 -18 Gore Bay 205 -24 -26 Graham 495 -35 -37 Gravenhurst (Muskoka
Dry Wet Below Rain, 1/50, mm Index
Ss Sr 1/10 1/50
3.2 0.4 0.33 0.42 2.0 0.4 0.36 0.46 2.8 0.4 0.34 0.44 1.3 0.4 0.36 0.47 3.1 0.4 0.35 0.45 2.4 0.3 0.24 0.31 2.9 0.4 0.29 0.38 2.6 0.4 0.28 0.36 2.0 0.4 0.37 0.48 2.8 0.4 0.32 0.41 2.3 0.4 0.33 0.42 2.4 0.4 0.38 0.49 2.3 0.4 0.28 0.36 2.2 0.4 0.28 0.36 2.0 0.4 0.37 0.48 2.3 0.4 0.36 0.46 2.3 0.4 0.36 0.46 2.3 0.3 0.24 0.31 2.1 0.4 0.36 0.47 2.9 0.4 0.23 0.30 1.5 0.4 0.33 0.43 2.4 0.4 0.43 0.55 2.6 0.4 0.34 0.44 2.6 0.3 0.23 0.30
2.7 0.4 0.28 0.36
0.9 0.4 0.36 0.46 1.9 0.4 0.28 0.36 2.5 0.4 0.28 0.36 2.4 0.4 0.34 0.44 1.2 0.4 0.34 0.44
1.3 0.4 0.36 0.46
2.9 0.4 0.27 0.35
1.4 0.4 0.29 0.37
1.1 0.4 0.36 0.46 2.6 0.4 0.37 0.48 2.0 0.4 0.32 0.41 2.3 0.4 0.32 0.41 2.8 0.3 0.23 0.30
Airport)
255 -26 -28
°C °C
29 22 30 24 29 22 31 24 29 22 28 22 29 21 29 23 30 23 29 22 29 21 30 23 30 23 29 23 31 23 30 24 30 24 29 22 28 23 28 21 31 24 29 23 28 22 29 22
29 23
30 23 29 23 29 23 30 22 30 23
30 23
29 23
30 23
31 23 29 22 30 23 30 23 29 21
18°C mm mm
4700 28 108 750 0.89 3660 23 108 830 0.95 4340 28 103 815 0.94 3700 28 92 850 0.96 5730 23 92 560 0.75 5740 25 108 510 0.65 4950 23 108 630 0.83 4200 28 97 720 0.87 3950 28 113 830 0.94 5800 23 92 600 0.78 4920 23 108 650 0.83 3900 25 113 810 0.94 4440 25 108 730 0.86 4300 28 108 760 0.87 3740 25 103 810 0.95 3650 23 108 860 0.98 3600 25 108 860 0.98 5440 25 108 570 0.71 4010 23 103 760 0.91 6450 20 86 550 0.77 3680 28 103 800 0.91 4000 25 92 810 0.95 4700 23 92 640 0.84 5940 23 97 570 0.75
4760 25 103 790 0.92
3520 23 108 760 0.90 4270 28 103 770 0.88 4300 28 103 700 0.83 5600 23 92 590 0.77 3750 23 108 810 0.93
3760 25 97 840 0.95
4840 25 92 780 0.90
4200 28 119 750 0.84
3460 23 108 810 0.90 4300 28 103 790 0.92 4280 25 92 730 0.85 4610 23 103 800 0.91 6450 20 86 520 0.74
Grimsby 85 -16 -18
Guelph 340 -19 -21
Guthrie 280 -24 -26
Haileybury 210 -32 -35
Haldimand(Caledonia) 190 -18 -20
Halton Hills (Georgetown)
Haldimand (Hagersville)
215 -17 -19 Haliburton 335 -27 -29
Hamilton 90 -17 -19 Hanover 270 -19 -21 Hastings 200 -24 -26 Hawkesbury 50 -25 -27 Hearst 245 -35 -37
Design Temperature January July 2.5%
Table C-2 (Continued)
De- One
gree- 15 Day Ann.
Days Min. Rain, Rain, Moist.
Driv- Ann. ing Rain
Tot. Wind Ppn., Pres- mm sures,
Pa, 1/5
1080 150 950 160 1025 140 925 180 820 120 680 120 950 160 950 140 950 160 880 100 840 160 975 180 950 120 925 160 875 160 1020 160 1000 160 725 120 900 180 725 100 925 180 950 180 860 160 750 140
1050 120
875 160 875 140 950 120 820 120 875 160
875 160
980 100
850 140
875 160 1050 140 840 140 925 160 825 80
Snow Load, kPa, 1/50
Hourly Wind Pressures, kPa
255 -19 -21
              © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
Appendix C
Province and Location
Honey Harbour Hornepayne Huntsville Ingersoll Iroquois Falls Jellicoe Kapuskasing Kemptville Kenora
Killaloe Kincardine Kingston Kinmount
Kirkland Lake Kitchener Lakefield Lansdowne House Leamington Lindsay
Lion’s Head
Listowel
London
Lucan
Maitland
Markdale
Markham
Martin
Matheson
Mattawa
Midland
Milton
Milverton
Minden
Mississauga
Mississauga (Lester B. Pearson Int’l Airport)
Mississauga (Port Credit)
Mitchell Moosonee Morrisburg
Elev.,
One
15 Day Ann. Min. Rain, Rain,
Moist. Index
0.87 0.68 0.93 0.95 0.77 0.76 0.76 0.86 0.64 0.83 0.95 0.96 0.88 0.78 0.89 0.85 0.78 0.91 0.84 0.89 0.93 0.94 0.94 0.89 0.94 0.81 0.75 0.77 0.86 0.88 0.85 0.93 0.90 0.85
0.81
0.87
0.94 0.84 0.91
Design Temperature January July 2.5%
Table C-2 (Continued)
De- gree- Days
Driv- Ann. ing Rain
Tot. Wind Ppn., Pres-
Snow Load, kPa, 1/50
Hourly Wind Pressures, kPa
m 2.5% 1% °C °C
180 -24 -26 360 -37 -40 335 -26 -29 280 -18 -20 275 -33 -36 330 -36 -39 245 -34 -36
90 -25 -27 370 -33 -35 185 -28 -31 190 -17 -19
80 -22 -24 295 -26 -28 325 -33 -36 335 -19 -21 240 -24 -26 240 -38 -40 190 -15 -17 265 -24 -26 185 -19 -21 380 -19 -21 245 -18 -20 300 -17 -19
85 -23 -25 425 -20 -22 175 -21 -23 485 -35 -37 265 -33 -36 165 -29 -31 190 -24 -26 200 -18 -20 370 -19 -21 270 -27 -29 160 -18 -20
170 -20 -22
75 -18 -20
335 -18 -20 10 -36 -38 75 -23 -25
Dry Wet Below
Rain, 1/50, mm mm mm
mm sures, Ss Pa, 1/5
1050 160 2.7 750 80 3.3 1000 120 2.9 950 180 1.7 825 100 2.9 750 100 2.7 825 100 3.0 925 160 2.3 630 120 2.5 825 120 2.7 950 180 2.6 950 180 2.1 950 120 2.7 875 100 2.9 925 140 2.0 850 140 2.2 680 140 3.0 875 180 0.8 850 140 2.3 950 180 2.7 1000 160 2.6 975 180 1.9 1000 180 2.3 975 180 2.2 1050 160 3.2 825 140 1.3 750 120 2.6 825 100 2.8 875 100 2.1 1060 160 2.7 850 160 1.3 1050 160 2.4 1010 100 2.7 800 160 1.1
790 160 1.1
800 160 0.9
1050 160 2.4 700 160 2.7 950 180 2.3
Sr 1/10 1/50
0.4 0.30 0.39 0.4 0.23 0.30 0.4 0.27 0.35 0.4 0.37 0.48 0.3 0.29 0.37 0.4 0.23 0.30 0.3 0.24 0.31 0.4 0.32 0.41 0.3 0.24 0.31 0.4 0.27 0.35 0.4 0.43 0.55 0.4 0.36 0.47 0.4 0.27 0.35 0.3 0.30 0.39 0.4 0.29 0.37 0.4 0.29 0.38 0.2 0.25 0.32 0.4 0.36 0.47 0.4 0.29 0.38 0.4 0.37 0.48 0.4 0.36 0.47 0.4 0.36 0.47 0.4 0.39 0.50 0.4 0.34 0.44 0.4 0.32 0.41 0.4 0.34 0.44 0.3 0.23 0.30 0.3 0.30 0.39 0.4 0.25 0.32 0.4 0.30 0.39 0.4 0.33 0.43 0.4 0.33 0.43 0.4 0.27 0.35 0.4 0.34 0.44
0.4 0.34 0.44
0.4 0.37 0.48
0.4 0.37 0.48 0.3 0.27 0.35 0.4 0.32 0.41
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division B C-19
°C °C
29 23 28 21 29 22 30 23 29 21 28 21 29 21 30 23 28 22 30 22 28 22 28 23 29 23 29 22 29 23 30 23 28 21 31 24 30 23 27 22 29 23 30 24 30 23 29 23 29 22 31 24 29 22 29 21 30 22 29 23 30 23 29 23 29 23 30 23
31 24
29 23
29 23 28 22 30 23
18°C
4300
6340
4850
3920
6100
6400
6250
4540
5630
4960
3890
4000
4600
6000
4200
4330
7150
3400
4320
4300
4300
3900
3900
4080
4500
4000
5900
6080
5050
4200
3920
4200
4640
3880
3890
3780
4100
6800
4370
25 97 710 20 93 420 25 103 800 28 108 840 20 86 575 20 86 550 20 86 550 25 92 750 25 113 515 23 86 680 25 92 800 23 108 780 25 108 750 23 92 600 28 119 780 25 92 720 23 92 500 28 113 800 25 103 720 25 103 700 28 119 800 28 103 825 25 113 810 25 103 770 28 103 820 25 86 720 25 103 560 20 86 580 23 86 700 25 97 740 25 125 750 28 108 800 25 97 780 25 113 720
26 108 685
25 108 720
28 113 810 18 81 500 25 103 800
              © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Appendix C
Division B
Province and Location Elev.,
m 2.5% 1%
Dry Wet Below Rain, 1/50, mm Index
Ss Sr 1/10 1/50
2.7 0.4 0.32 0.41 2.8 0.4 0.23 0.30 1.4 0.4 0.37 0.48 1.2 0.4 0.37 0.48 1.9 0.4 0.33 0.43 2.6 0.4 0.33 0.43 1.5 0.4 0.37 0.48
1.4 0.4 0.37 0.48
2.0 0.4 0.29 0.38 1.8 0.4 0.33 0.43 2.2 0.4 0.27 0.34 2.1 0.4 0.32 0.41 1.1 0.4 0.36 0.47 2.3 0.4 0.28 0.36 2.4 0.4 0.28 0.36 1.4 0.4 0.37 0.48
2.4 0.4 0.32 0.41 2.4 0.4 0.32 0.41 2.5 0.4 0.32 0.41
2.4 0.4 0.32 0.41
2.4 0.4 0.32 0.41 2.8 0.4 0.37 0.48 2.7 0.4 0.23 0.30 1.4 0.4 0.33 0.42 2.1 0.4 0.39 0.50 2.8 0.4 0.30 0.39 2.1 0.4 0.33 0.42 2.5 0.4 0.27 0.35 2.8 0.4 0.30 0.39 2.3 0.4 0.32 0.41 2.6 0.4 0.27 0.35 2.0 0.4 0.32 0.41 1.3 0.4 0.36 0.47 1.0 0.4 0.37 0.48 2.0 0.4 0.38 0.49 1.9 0.4 0.33 0.42 2.5 0.4 0.27 0.35 1.2 0.4 0.36 0.47
Mount Forest 420 Nakina 325 Nanticoke (Jarvis) 205 Nanticoke(PortDover) 180 Napanee 90 New Liskeard 180 Newcastle 115 Newcastle
95
(Bowmanville)
Newmarket 185 Niagara Falls 210 North Bay 210 Norwood 225 Oakville 90 Orangeville 430 Orillia 230 Oshawa 110 Ottawa (Metropolitan)
Ottawa (City Hall) 70 Ottawa(Barrhaven) 98 Ottawa (Kanata) 98 Ottawa (M-C Int’l
°C °C
-21 -24 -36 -38 -17 -18 -15 -17 -22 -24 -32 -35 -20 -22
-20 -22
-22 -24 -16 -18 -28 -30 -24 -26 -18 -20 -21 -23 -25 -27 -19 -21
-25 -27 -25 -27 -25 -27
-25 -27
-26 -28 -19 -21 -35 -37 -18 -20 -16 -18 -24 -26 -15 -17 -28 -31 -24 -26 -25 -27 -29 -31 -23 -25 -16 -18 -19 -21
°C °C
28 22 28 21 30 23 30 24 29 23 30 22 30 23
30 23
30 23 30 23 28 22 30 23 30 23 29 23 29 23 30 23
30 23 30 23 30 23
30 23
30 23 29 22 28 21 30 23 31 23 28 22 30 23 30 23 29 23 30 23 30 23 30 23 31 24 30 23 29 23 29 23 30 22 30 24
18°C mm mm
4700 28 103 740 0.87 6500 20 86 540 0.76 3700 28 108 840 0.95 3600 25 108 860 0.98 4140 23 92 770 0.90 5570 23 92 570 0.75 3990 23 86 760 0.90
4000 23 86 760 0.90
4260 28 108 700 0.81 3600 23 96 810 0.94 5150 25 95 775 0.93 4320 25 92 720 0.84 3760 23 97 750 0.90 4450 28 108 730 0.84 4260 25 103 740 0.88 3860 23 86 760 0.90
4440 23 86 750 0.84 4500 25 92 750 0.84 4520 25 92 730 0.84
4500 24 89 750 0.84
4500 23 91 750 0.84 4030 28 113 760 0.90 6500 20 86 540 0.76 4000 23 96 790 0.90 3800 25 103 800 0.93 4640 23 97 820 0.95 3690 23 96 820 0.94 4980 23 105 640 0.80 4200 25 97 720 0.87 4540 25 92 730 0.84 4980 23 92 640 0.80 4400 25 92 710 0.83 3640 25 108 810 0.89 3800 23 92 730 0.88 3980 23 92 770 0.91 4150 28 103 820 0.93 4960 23 92 650 0.82 3800 25 92 930 1.05
Airport)
125
Ottawa (Orleans) 70 Owen Sound 215 Pagwa River 185 Paris 245 Parkhill 205 Parry Sound 215 Pelham (Fonthill) 230 Pembroke 125 Penetanguishene 220 Perth 130 Petawawa 135 Peterborough 200 Petrolia 195 Pickering(Dunbarton) 85
Picton Plattsville
Point Alexander Port Burwell
95 -21 -23 300 -19 -21 150 -29 -32 195 -15 -17
C-20 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Design Temperature January July 2.5%
Table C-2 (Continued)
De- One
gree- 15 Day Ann.
Days Min. Rain, Rain, Moist.
Driv- Ann. ing Rain
Tot. Wind Ppn., Pres- mm sures,
Pa, 1/5
940 140 750 100 900 160 950 140 900 160 810 100 830 160
830 160
800 140 950 160 975 120 850 120 850 160 875 140
1000 120 875 160
900 160 900 160 900 160
900 160
900 160 1075 160 825 80
925 160
925 180 1050 160 950 160 825 100 1050 160 900 140 825 100 840 140 920 180 825 140 940 160 950 140 850 100 1000 180
Snow Load, kPa, 1/50
Hourly Wind Pressures, kPa
             © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
Appendix C
Province and Location Elev.,
m 2.5% 1%
°C °C
Port Colborne 180 -15 -17 Port Elgin 205 -17 -19 Port Hope 100 -21 -23 Port Perry 270 -22 -24 Port Stanley 180 -15 -17 Prescott 90 -23 -25 Princeton 280 -18 -20 Raith 475 -34 -37 Rayside-Balfour
270 -28 -30
(Chelmsford)
Red Lake 360 -35 -37 Renfrew 115 -27 -30 Richmond Hill 230 -21 -23 Rockland 50 -26 -28 Sarnia 190 -16 -18 Sault Ste. Marie 190 -25 -28 Schreiber 310 -34 -36 Seaforth 310 -17 -19 Shelburne 495 -22 -24 Simcoe 210 -17 -19 Sioux Lookout 375 -34 -36 Smiths Falls 130 -25 -27 Smithville 185 -16 -18 Smooth Rock Falls 235 -34 -36 South River 355 -27 -29 Southampton 180 -17 -19 St. Catharines 105 -16 -18 St. Mary’s 310 -18 -20 St. Thomas 225 -16 -18 Stirling 120 -23 -25 Stratford 360 -18 -20 Strathroy 225 -17 -19 Sturgeon Falls 205 -28 -30 Sudbury 275 -28 -30 Sundridge 340 -27 -29 Tavistock 340 -19 -21 Temagami 300 -30 -33 Thamesford 280 -19 -21 Thedford 205 -16 -18 Thunder Bay 210 -31 -33
°C °C
30 24 28 22 29 23 30 23 31 24 29 23 30 23 28 22
29 21
28 21 30 23 31 24 30 23 31 24 29 22 27 21 30 23 29 23 30 24 28 22 30 23 30 23 29 21 29 22 28 22 30 23 30 23 31 24 30 23 29 23 31 24 29 21 29 21 29 22 29 23 30 22 30 23 31 23 29 21
18°C
3600
4100
3970
4260
3850
4120
4000
5900
5200
6220
4900
4000
4600
3750
4960
5960
4100
4700
3700
5950
4540
3650
6250
5090
4100
3540
4000
3780
4220
4050
3780
5200
5180
5080
4100
5420
3950
3710
5650
Rain, 1/50, mm mm mm
Moist. Index
0.97 0.94 0.90 0.84 1.05 0.88 0.92 0.75
0.80
0.69 0.75 0.83 0.89 0.87 0.89 0.82 0.94 0.88 0.97 0.69 0.84 0.92 0.77 0.96 0.95 0.90 0.95 0.99 0.86 0.95 0.88 0.86 0.79 0.97 0.95 0.82 0.93 0.95 0.76
mm sures, Ss Pa, 1/5
1000 160 2.1 850 180 2.8 825 180 1.2 850 140 2.4 975 180 1.2 975 180 2.2 925 160 1.5 750 120 2.7
850 180 2.5
630 120 2.6 810 140 2.5 850 140 1.5 950 160 2.4 825 180 1.1 950 200 3.1 850 160 3.3
1025 160 2.5 900 150 3.1 950 160 1.3 710 100 2.6 850 140 2.3 900 160 1.5 850 80 2.7 975 120 2.8 830 180 2.7 850 160 1.0
1025 160 2.2 975 180 1.4 850 120 1.7
1050 160 2.3 950 180 1.9 910 140 2.4 875 200 2.5 975 120 2.8
1010 160 2.1 875 120 2.6 975 160 1.9 900 180 2.1 710 160 2.9
Sr
0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4
0.4
0.3 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.3 0.4 0.4 0.3 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4
Design Temperature January July 2.5%
One
15 Day Ann. Min. Rain, Rain,
Driv- Ann. ing Rain
Tot. Wind Ppn., Pres-
Snow Load, kPa, 1/50
Hourly Wind Pressures, kPa
1/10 1/50
0.36 0.46 0.43 0.55 0.37 0.48 0.34 0.44 0.36 0.47 0.34 0.44 0.33 0.42 0.23 0.30
0.35 0.45
0.23 0.30 0.27 0.35 0.34 0.44 0.31 0.40 0.36 0.47 0.34 0.44 0.30 0.39 0.37 0.48 0.31 0.40 0.35 0.45 0.23 0.30 0.32 0.41 0.33 0.42 0.25 0.32 0.27 0.35 0.41 0.53 0.36 0.46 0.36 0.47 0.36 0.47 0.31 0.40 0.35 0.45 0.36 0.47 0.27 0.35 0.36 0.46 0.27 0.35 0.35 0.45 0.29 0.37 0.37 0.48 0.39 0.50 0.30 0.39
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division B C-21
Table C-2 (Continued)
De- gree- Days
Dry Wet Below
23 108 850 25 92 790 23 94 760 25 97 720 25 92 940 25 103 770 25 97 810 23 97 570
25 92 650
20 92 470 23 97 620 25 97 740 23 92 780 25 100 750 23 97 660 20 103 600 25 108 810 28 108 740 28 113 860 25 97 520 25 92 730 23 108 800 20 92 560 25 103 830 25 92 800 23 92 770 28 108 820 25 103 900 25 97 740 28 113 820 25 103 770 25 95 700 25 97 650 25 97 840 28 113 820 23 92 650 28 108 820 25 103 810 23 108 560
              © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Appendix C
Division B
Province and Location Elev.,
m 2.5% 1%
°C °C
Tillsonburg 215 -17 -19 Timmins 300 -34 -36 Timmins (Porcupine) 295 -34 -36 Toronto Metropolitan
Region
Etobicoke 160 -20 -22 North York 175 -20 -22 Scarborough 180 -20 -22 Toronto (City Hall) 90 -18 -20
Trenton 80 -22 -24 Trout Creek 330 -27 -29 Uxbridge 275 -22 -24 Vaughan(Woodbridge) 165 -20 -22 Vittoria 215 -15 -17 Walkerton 275 -18 -20 Wallaceburg 180 -16 -18 Waterloo 330 -19 -21 Watford 240 -17 -19 Wawa 290 -34 -36 Welland 180 -15 -17 West Lorne 215 -16 -18 Whitby 85 -20 -22 Whitby (Brooklin) 160 -20 -22 White River 375 -39 -42 Wiarton 185 -19 -21 Windsor 185 -16 -18 Wingham 310 -18 -20 Woodstock 300 -19 -21 Wyoming 215 -16 -18
Quebec
Acton-Vale 95 -24 -27 Alma 110 -31 -33 Amos 295 -34 -36 Asbestos 245 -26 -28 Aylmer 90 -25 -28 Baie-Comeau 60 -27 -29 Baie-Saint-Paul 20 -27 -29 Beauport 45 -26 -29 Bedford 55 -24 -26 Beloeil 25 -24 -26
Dry Wet Below Rain, 1/50, mm
Ss Sr 1/10 1/50
1.3 0.4 0.34 0.44 3.1 0.3 0.27 0.35 2.9 0.3 0.29 0.37
1.1 0.4 0.34 0.44 1.2 0.4 0.34 0.44 1.2 0.4 0.36 0.47 0.9 0.4 0.34 0.44 1.6 0.4 0.36 0.47 2.7 0.4 0.27 0.35 2.4 0.4 0.33 0.42 1.1 0.4 0.34 0.44 1.3 0.4 0.36 0.47 2.7 0.4 0.39 0.50 0.9 0.4 0.35 0.45 2.0 0.4 0.29 0.37 1.9 0.4 0.36 0.47 3.4 0.4 0.30 0.39 2.0 0.4 0.33 0.43 1.3 0.4 0.36 0.47 1.2 0.4 0.37 0.48 1.9 0.4 0.35 0.45 3.6 0.4 0.23 0.30 2.7 0.4 0.37 0.48 0.8 0.4 0.36 0.47 2.6 0.4 0.39 0.50 1.9 0.4 0.34 0.44 1.6 0.4 0.36 0.47
2.3 0.4 0.27 0.35 3.3 0.4 0.27 0.35 3.2 0.3 0.25 0.32 2.8 0.6 0.27 0.35 2.5 0.4 0.32 0.41 4.3 0.4 0.39 0.50 3.4 0.6 0.37 0.48 3.4 0.6 0.33 0.42 2.1 0.4 0.32 0.41 2.4 0.4 0.29 0.37
C-22 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Design Temperature January July 2.5%
Table C-2 (Continued)
De- One
gree- 15 Day Ann. Days Min. Rain, Rain,
Ann. Moist. Tot.
Index Ppn., mm
0.98 980 0.75 875 0.75 875
0.80 800 0.82 850 0.87 825 0.86 820 0.89 850 0.92 975 0.82 850 0.80 800 0.99 950 0.92 1025 0.87 825 0.89 925 0.90 950 0.93 950 0.96 975 0.95 900 0.90 850 0.91 850 0.80 825 0.91 1000 0.85 900 0.91 1050 0.94 930 0.92 900
0.97 1050 0.86 950 0.85 920 0.98 1050 0.84 900 0.96 1000 0.89 1000 1.09 1200 0.99 1260 0.95 1025
Driv- ing Rain Wind Pres- sures, Pa, 1/5
160 100 100
  160
  150
  160
  160
  160
  120
  140
  140
  160
  160
  180
  160
  160
  160
  160
  180
  160
  140
  100
  180
  180
  160
  160
  180
  180
  160
  100
  160
  160
  220
  180
  200
  160
  180
Snow Load, kPa, 1/50
Hourly Wind Pressures, kPa
°C °C
30 24 29 21 29 21
31 24 31 24 31 24 31 23 29 23 29 22 30 23 31 24 30 24 30 22 31 24 29 23 31 24 26 21 30 23 31 24 30 23 30 23 28 21 29 22 32 24 30 23 30 23 31 24
30 23 28 22 28 21 29 22 30 23 25 19 28 21 28 22 29 23 30 23
18°C mm mm
3840 25 103 880 5940 20 108 560 6000 20 103 560
3800 26 108 720 3760 25 108 730 3800 25 92 730 3520 25 97 720 4110 23 97 760 5100 25 103 780 4240 25 103 700 4100 26 113 700 3680 25 113 880 4300 28 103 790 3600 28 97 760 4200 28 119 780 3740 25 108 790 5840 20 93 725 3670 23 103 840 3700 28 103 840 3820 23 86 760 4010 23 86 770 6150 20 92 575 4300 25 103 740 3400 28 103 800 4220 28 108 780 3910 28 113 830 3700 25 103 815
4620 21 107 860 5800 20 91 700 6160 20 91 670 4800 23 96 870 4520 23 91 730 6020 16 91 680 5280 18 102 730 5100 20 107 980 4420 23 91 880 4500 23 91 840
              © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
Appendix C
Province and Location
Brome
Brossard Buckingham Campbell’s Bay Chambly Coaticook Contrecoeur Cowansville Deux-Montagnes Dolbeau Drummondville Farnham Fort-Coulonge Gagnon
Gaspé
Gatineau Gracefield
Granby Harrington-Harbour Havre-St-Pierre Hemmingford
Hull
Iberville Inukjuak Joliette Kuujjuaq Kuujjuarapik La Pocatière La-Malbaie La-Tuque Lac-Mégantic Lachute Lennoxville Léry Loretteville Louiseville Magog Malartic Maniwaki Masson
m 2.5% 1% °C °C
210 -25 -27 15 -24 -26 130 -26 -28 115 -28 -30 20 -24 -26 295 -25 -27 10 -25 -27 120 -25 -27 25 -25 -27 120 -32 -34 85 -26 -28 60 -24 -26 110 -28 -30 545 -34 -36 55 -25 -26 95 -25 -28 175 -28 -31 120 -25 -27 30 -27 -29 5 -27 -29 75 -24 -26 65 -25 -28 35 -24 -26 5 -36 -38 45 -26 -28 25 -37 -39 20 -36 -38 55 -24 -26 25 -26 -28 165 -30 -32 420 -27 -29 65 -26 -28 155 -28 -30 30 -24 -26 100 -26 -29 15 -25 -28 215 -26 -28 325 -33 -36 180 -30 -32 50 -26 -28
Rain, Rain, Moist.
Elev.,
15 Min.
Rain, 1/50, mm mm mm
23 96 990 23 91 800 23 91 810 23 96 700 23 91 850 23 96 860 20 102 810 23 91 940 23 96 820 22 91 670 22 107 870 23 96 910 23 96 720 17 80 580 19 118 760 23 91 790 23 96 700 23 102 940 15 96 900 15 96 780 23 91 770 23 91 730 23 91 880
9 54 270 21 102 790 9 54 280 12 80 410 18 102 675 18 102 640 23 96 720 23 91 790 23 96 910 23 96 850 23 91 800 20 102 980 20 102 800 23 96 860 20 86 640 23 96 700 23 91 790
Ann. Tot.
Index Ppn., mm
Design Temperature January July 2.5%
De- gree- Days
One
Day Ann.
Driv- ing Rain Wind Pres-
Snow Load, kPa, 1/50
Hourly Wind Pressures, kPa
1/10 1/50
0.29 0.37 0.33 0.42 0.31 0.40 0.25 0.32 0.31 0.40 0.27 0.35 0.33 0.43 0.32 0.41 0.29 0.37 0.27 0.35 0.27 0.35 0.29 0.37 0.25 0.32 0.30 0.39 0.37 0.48 0.32 0.41 0.25 0.32 0.27 0.35 0.56 0.72 0.48 0.63 0.31 0.40 0.32 0.41 0.32 0.41 0.47 0.60 0.28 0.36 0.47 0.60 0.43 0.55 0.39 0.50 0.37 0.48 0.27 0.35 0.27 0.35 0.31 0.40 0.25 0.32 0.33 0.42 0.32 0.41 0.33 0.43 0.27 0.35 0.25 0.32 0.24 0.31 0.31 0.40
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division B C-23
Dry Wet Below
sures, Ss Pa, 1/5
160 2.5 180 2.4 160 2.6 140 2.6 160 2.3 160 2.3 180 2.8 160 2.3 160 2.4 140 3.5 180 2.5 180 2.5 100 2.5 140 4.6 300 4.3 160 2.5 140 2.6 160 2.3 300 4.9 300 4.1 160 2.4 160 2.4 160 2.2 240 4.1 160 3.1 260 4.8 180 4.2 180 3.2 180 3.1 160 3.4 160 3.2 160 2.4 160 2.1 180 2.3 200 3.7 160 2.9 160 2.3 100 3.3 100 2.4 160 2.4
Sr
0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.6 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.3 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.6 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.6 0.6 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.2 0.4 0.2 0.3 0.6 0.6 0.4 0.6 0.4 0.6 0.4 0.6 0.4 0.4 0.3 0.4 0.4
°C °C
29 23 30 23 30 23 30 23 30 23 28 22 30 23 29 23 29 23 28 22 30 23 29 23 30 23 24 19 26 20 30 23 30 23 29 23 19 16 22 18 30 23 30 23 29 23 21 15 29 23 24 17 25 17 28 22 28 21 29 22 27 22 29 23 29 22 29 23 28 22 29 23 29 23 29 21 29 22 30 23
18°C
4730
4420
4880
4900
4450
4750
4500
4540
4440
6250
4700
4500
4950
7600
5500
4600
5080
4500
6150
6100
4380
4550
4450
9150
4720
8550
7990
5160
5400
5500
5180
4640
4700
4420
5200
4900
4730
6200
5280
4610
1.09 0.90 0.94 0.83 0.96 1.00 0.94 1.04 0.92 0.85 0.98 1.01 0.86 0.89 0.96 0.92 0.85 1.04 1.18 1.05 0.89 0.84 0.99 0.88 0.93 0.80 0.85 0.85 0.82 0.87 0.94 1.04 0.98 0.91 1.09 0.93 0.99 0.82 0.86 0.92
1240
1025
990
850
1000
1060
1000
1150
1025
900
1075
1050
900
925
1100
950
950
1175
1150
1125
1025
900
1010
420
1000
525
610
965
900
930
1025
1075
1100
950
1225
1025
1125
900
900
975
Table C-2 (Continued)
             © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Appendix C
Division B
Province and Location Elev.,
m 2.5% 1%
°C °C
Matane 5 -24 -26 Mont-Joli 90 -24 -26 Mont-Laurier 225 -29 -32 Montmagny 10 -25 -28 Montréal Region
Beaconsfield 25 -24 -26 Dorval 25 -24 -26 Laval 35 -24 -26 Montréal(CityHall) 20 -23 -26 Montréal-Est 25 -23 -26 Montréal-Nord 20 -24 -26 Outremont 105 -23 -26 Pierrefonds 25 -24 -26 St-Lambert 15 -23 -26 St-Laurent 45 -23 -26 Ste-Anne-de-
15 Min.
Bellevue
35 -24 -26
°C °C
24 20 26 21 29 22 28 22
30 23 30 23 29 23 30 23 30 23 30 23 30 23 30 23 30 23 30 23
29 23
30 23 29 23 23 19 29 21 25 19 29 23 29 23 25 19 23 16
28 23
28 22 28 22 28 23 28 23 29 22 26 20 26 21 28 21 29 23 29 23 29 21 28 22
18°C
5510
5370
5320
5090
4440
4400
4500
4200
4470
4470
4300
4430
4400
4270
4460
4200
4900
8100
6050
5400
4480
5100
6060
9200
5130
5050
5080
5070
5100
4700
5300
5380
5750
4850
4550
6050
5700
Verdun 20 -23 -26 Nicolet (Gentilly) 15 -25 -28 Nitchequon 545 -39 -41 Noranda 305 -33 -36 Percé 5 -21 -24 Pincourt 25 -24 -26 Plessisville 145 -26 -28 Port-Cartier 20 -28 -30 Puvirnituq 5 -36 -38 Québec City Region
Ancienne- Lorette
35 -25 -28
20
102 940
Lévis 50 -25 -28 Québec 120 -25 -28 Sillery 10 -25 -28 Ste-Foy 115 -25 -28
Richmond 150 -25 -27 Rimouski 30 -25 -27 Rivière-du-Loup 55 -25 -27 Roberval 100 -31 -33 Rock-Island 160 -25 -27 Rosemère 25 -24 -26 Rouyn 300 -33 -36 Saguenay 10 -30 -32
20
20
20
20
23 96 870 18 91 640 18 91 660 22 91 590 23 91 900 23 96 840 20 91 650
C-24 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Design Temperature January July 2.5%
Driv- Ann. ing Rain
Moist. Tot. Wind Index Ppn., Pres- mm sures,
Pa, 1/5
0.88 1050 220 0.84 920 220 0.93 1000 160 1.01 1090 180
0.89 950 180 0.85 940 180 0.93 1025 160 0.93 1025 180 0.93 1025 180 0.93 1025 160 0.91 1025 180 0.90 960 180 0.91 1050 160 0.89 950 160
0.89 960 180
0.88 1025 180 0.98 1025 160 0.89 825 140 0.82 875 100 1.18 1300 300 0.88 950 180 1.00 1150 180 0.99 1125 300 0.87 375 240
1.06 1200 200
1.04 1200 160 1.04 1210 200 1.05 1200 200 1.06 1200 180 0.98 1060 160 0.84 890 200 0.84 900 180 0.77 910 140 1.03 1125 160 0.97 1050 160 0.82 900 100 0.88 975 140
Snow Load, kPa, 1/50
Hourly Wind Pressures, kPa
De- gree- Days
Dry Wet Below
One
Day Ann.
mm mm
18 91 640 18 91 610 24 102 790 20 102 880
23 91 780 23 91 760 23 96 830 23 96 830 23 96 830 23 96 830 23 96 820 23 96 800 23 96 810 23 96 790
23 96 780
23 91 780 20 107 860 15 70 500 20 91 650 16 107 1000 23 96 780 21 107 890 15 106 730
7 54 210
Table C-2 (Continued)
Rain, Rain, Rain, 1/50, mm
Ss Sr 1/10 1/50
3.7 0.4 0.47 0.60 4.1 0.4 0.40 0.52 2.6 0.4 0.23 0.30 2.9 0.6 0.36 0.47
2.3 0.4 0.33 0.42 2.4 0.4 0.33 0.42 2.6 0.4 0.33 0.42 2.6 0.4 0.33 0.42 2.7 0.4 0.33 0.42 2.6 0.4 0.33 0.42 2.8 0.4 0.33 0.42 2.4 0.4 0.33 0.42 2.5 0.4 0.33 0.42 2.5 0.4 0.33 0.42
2.3 0.4 0.33 0.42
2.5 0.4 0.33 0.42 2.8 0.4 0.33 0.42 3.5 0.3 0.29 0.37 3.2 0.3 0.27 0.35 3.8 0.6 0.56 0.72 2.3 0.4 0.33 0.42 2.8 0.6 0.27 0.35 4.1 0.4 0.42 0.54 4.5 0.2 0.47 0.60
3.4 0.6 0.32 0.41
3.3 0.6 0.32 0.41 3.6 0.6 0.32 0.41 3.1 0.6 0.32 0.41 3.7 0.6 0.32 0.41 2.4 0.6 0.25 0.32 3.8 0.4 0.40 0.52 3.5 0.6 0.39 0.50 3.5 0.3 0.27 0.35 2.0 0.4 0.27 0.35 2.6 0.4 0.31 0.40 3.1 0.3 0.27 0.35 2.7 0.4 0.28 0.36
18
86 710
107 920 107 925 107 930 107 940
              © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
Appendix C
Province and Location
Elev.,
One
15 Day Ann. Min. Rain, Rain,
Moist. Index
0.86 0.87 0.86 0.92
0.99
0.87
0.81 0.91 1.01 0.96 0.79 1.03 0.93 0.76
0.85
0.92
0.90
0.95 0.97 0.99 0.85 1.01
1.00
1.09 0.88 0.88 0.93 1.06 0.93 0.98 0.83 0.94 0.94 0.97 0.80 0.91
Saguenay(Bagotville) 5 Saguenay(Jonquière) Saguenay(Kenogami) Saint-Eustache Saint-Jean-sur-
°C °C
28 21 28 22 28 22 29 23
29 23
29 23
24 16 29 21 24 18 29 23 30 23 29 23 29 23 28 22
26 21
30 23
26 21
30 23 29 23 28 22 30 23 28 22
28 22
29 23 27 21 30 22 29 23 28 22 30 23 29 23 29 21 30 23 30 23 29 23 30 22 30 23
18°C
5700
5650
5650
4500
4450
4400
8550
6180
6200
5050
4880
4700
4550
5850
5400
4490
5520
4500
4820
5250
4520
4990
5390
4600
5450
5020
4500
5120
4820
4900
6180
4500
4450
4900
5550
4820
18 86 690 18 86 710 18 86 690 23 96 820
23 91 880
23 96 760
13 64 410 22 91 740 15 106 760 22 102 820 23 96 670 23 96 900 20 102 800 22 91 570
18 91 660
23 91 820
22 91 740
21 91 840 23 96 830 23 96 810 23 96 750 20 102 890
23 96 820
23 96 990 18 96 700 23 96 730 23 96 830 22 107 950 23 91 800 20 107 860 20 86 640 23 96 810 23 96 810 21 102 850 23 96 630 23 91 780
Richelieu
Salaberry-de- Valleyfield
Schefferville
Senneterre
Sept-Îles
Shawinigan
Shawville
Sherbrooke
Sorel
St-Félicien
St-Georges-de- Cacouna
St-Hubert
Saint-Hubert-de- Rivière-du-Loup
35 -24 -26
50 -23 -25
550 -37 -39 310 -34 -36 5 -29 -31 60 -26 -29 170 -27 -30 185 -28 -30 10 -25 -27 105 -32 -34
35 -25 -27
25 -24 -26
310 -26 -28
35 -24 -27
St-Hyacinthe
St-Jérôme
St-Jovite
St-Lazare-Hudson 60
St-Nicolas
Ste-Agathe-des- Monts
Sutton Tadoussac Témiscaming Terrebonne Thetford Mines Thurso Trois-Rivières Val-d’Or Varennes Verchères Victoriaville Ville-Marie Wakefield
95 -26 -28 230 -29 -31 -24 -26 65 -25 -28
360 -28 -30
185 -25 -27 65 -26 -28 240 -30 -32 20 -25 -27 330 -26 -28 50 -26 -28 25 -25 -28 310 -33 -36 15 -24 -26 15 -24 -26 125 -26 -28 200 -31 -34 120 -27 -30
Design Temperature January July 2.5%
Table C-2 (Continued)
De- gree- Days
Driv- Ann. ing Rain
Tot. Wind Ppn., Pres-
Snow Load, kPa, 1/50
Hourly Wind Pressures, kPa
1/10 1/50
0.29 0.38 0.27 0.35 0.27 0.35 0.29 0.37
0.32 0.41
0.33 0.42
0.33 0.42 0.25 0.32 0.42 0.54 0.27 0.35 0.27 0.35 0.25 0.32 0.33 0.43 0.27 0.35
0.39 0.50
0.33 0.42
0.31 0.40
0.27 0.35 0.29 0.37 0.25 0.33 0.33 0.42 0.33 0.42
0.27 0.35
0.32 0.41 0.40 0.52 0.25 0.32 0.31 0.40 0.27 0.35 0.31 0.40 0.33 0.43 0.25 0.32 0.31 0.40 0.33 0.43 0.27 0.35 0.31 0.40 0.27 0.34
m 2.5% 1% °C °C
-31 -33 135 -30 -32 140 -30 -32 35 -25 -27
Dry Wet Below
Rain, 1/50, mm mm mm
mm sures, Ss Pa, 1/5
925 160 2.7 925 160 3.1 925 160 3.1
1025 160 2.4 1010 180 2.2
900 180 2.3
800 180 4.5
925 100 3.3 1125 300 4.1 1050 180 3.1
880 160 2.8 1100 160 2.2 975 180 2.8 900 140 3.5
925 180 3.2
1020 180 2.5
1025 180 4.4
1030 160 2.3 1025 160 2.7 1025 160 2.8
950 180 2.3 1200 200 3.5
1170 140 3.4
1260 160 2.4 1000 180 3.7 940 100 2.5 1025 160 2.6 1230 160 3.5 950 160 2.4 1050 180 2.8 925 100 3.4 1000 160 2.6 1000 160 2.7 1100 180 2.6 825 120 2.3 1020 160 2.4
Sr
0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4
0.4
0.4
0.3 0.3 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.6 0.4 0.3
0.6
0.4
0.6
0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.6
0.4
0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.6 0.4 0.4 0.3 0.4 0.4 0.6 0.4 0.4
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division B C-25
             © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Appendix C
Division B
Province and Location Elev.,
m 2.5% 1%
°C °C
Waterloo 205 -25 -27
Windsor 150 -25 -27
New Brunswick
Alma 5 -21 -23 Bathurst 10 -23 -26 Campbellton 30 -26 -28 Edmundston 160 -27 -29 Fredericton 15 -24 -27 Gagetown 20 -24 -26 Grand Falls 115 -27 -30 Miramichi 5 -24 -26 Moncton 20 -23 -25 Oromocto 20 -24 -26 Sackville 15 -22 -24 Saint Andrews 35 -22 -24 Saint George 35 -21 -23 Saint John 5 -22 -24 Shippagan 5 -22 -24 St. Stephen 20 -24 -26 Woodstock 60 -26 -29
Nova Scotia
Amherst 25 -21 -24 Antigonish 10 -17 -20 Bridgewater 10 -15 -17 Canso 5 -13 -15 Debert 45 -21 -24 Digby 35 -15 -17 Greenwood (CFB) 28 -18 -20 Halifax Region
Dartmouth 10 -16 -18
Halifax 55 -16 -18 Kentville 25 -18 -20 Liverpool 20 -16 -18 Lockeport 5 -14 -16 Louisburg 5 -15 -17 Lunenburg 25 -15 -17 New Glasgow 30 -19 -21 North Sydney 20 -16 -19 Pictou 25 -19 -21 Port Hawkesbury 40 -17 -19
Days Dry Wet Below
Min. Rain,
Rain, 1/50, mm Index Ppn.,
Ss Sr 1/10 1/50
2.5 0.4 0.27 0.35 2.3 0.4 0.25 0.32
2.6 0.6 0.37 0.48 4.1 0.6 0.37 0.48 4.3 0.4 0.35 0.45 3.4 0.6 0.29 0.38 3.1 0.6 0.29 0.38 2.8 0.6 0.31 0.40 3.6 0.6 0.29 0.38 3.4 0.6 0.32 0.41 3.0 0.6 0.39 0.50 3.0 0.6 0.30 0.39 2.5 0.6 0.38 0.49 2.8 0.6 0.35 0.45 2.8 0.6 0.35 0.45 2.3 0.6 0.41 0.53 3.4 0.6 0.48 0.63 2.9 0.6 0.33 0.42 3.1 0.6 0.29 0.37
2.4 0.6 0.37 0.48 2.3 0.6 0.42 0.54 1.9 0.6 0.43 0.55 1.7 0.6 0.48 0.61 2.1 0.6 0.37 0.48 2.2 0.6 0.43 0.55 2.7 0.6 0.42 0.54
1.6 0.6 0.45 0.58 1.9 0.6 0.45 0.58 2.6 0.6 0.42 0.54 1.7 0.6 0.48 0.61 1.4 0.6 0.47 0.60 2.1 0.7 0.50 0.65 1.9 0.6 0.48 0.61 2.2 0.6 0.43 0.55 2.4 0.6 0.46 0.59 2.2 0.6 0.43 0.55 2.1 0.6 0.57 0.74
C-26 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Design Temperature January July 2.5%
De- One gree- 15 Day
Ann. Ann. Rain, Moist. Tot.
Driv- ing Rain Wind Pres- sures, Pa, 1/5
Snow Load, kPa, 1/50
Hourly Wind Pressures, kPa
°C °C
29 23 29 23
26 20 30 22 29 22 28 22 29 22 29 22 28 22 30 22 28 21 29 22 27 21 25 20 25 20 25 20 28 21 28 22 30 22
27 21 27 21 27 20 25 20 27 21 25 20 29 22
26 20 26 20 28 21 27 20 25 20 26 20 26 20 27 21 27 21 27 21 27 21
18°C
4650 4700
4500
5020
5500
5320
4670
4460
5300
4950
4680
4650
4590
4680
4680
4570
4930
4700
4910
4500
4510
4140
4400
4500
4020
4140
4100
4000
4130
3990
4000
4530
4140
4320
4500
4310
4500
mm mm
23 96 980 23 96 930
mm
Table C-2 (Continued)
18 144
20 106
20 107
23 91
22 112
20 112
23 107
20 96
20 112
22 112
18 112
19 123
18 123
18 139
18 96
20 123
22 107 875
1.08 1250 160 1.04 1075 160
1.32 1450 260 0.94 1020 180
0.93 1025 180
0.94 1000 160
1.02 1100 160 1.04 1125 180 1.00 1100 160 0.97 1050 200 1.02 1175 220 1.02 1110 160
1.14 1175 220
1.15 1200 220
1.15 1200 220 1.27 1425 260 0.98 1050 260 1.15 1160 180 0.99 1100 160
1.12 1150 220 1.25 1250 240 1.45 1475 260 1.48 1400 260 1.16 1200 240 1.27 1275 260 1.05 1100 280
1.40 1400 280 1.49 1500 280 1.09 1200 260 1.48 1425 280 1.42 1450 280 1.46 1500 300 1.45 1450 260 1.13 1200 260 1.36 1475 300 1.11 1175 260 1.48 1450 260
18 118 950
15   123
16   144
15   123
18   118
15   130
16   118
1100
1300
1325
1000
1100
925
18 144
17 150
17 118 950
16 150
18 139
15 118
16 144
15 135
15 123
15 107 950 15 128 1325
1175
 775
 725
 750
 900
 900
 850
825
850
 900
 975
1000
1000
1100
800
1000
1250 1350
1325
1250
1300
1300
 975
1200
              © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
Appendix C
Province and Location Elev.,
m 2.5% 1%
°C °C
Springhill 185 -20 -23 Stewiacke 25 -20 -22 Sydney 5 -16 -19 Tatamagouche 25 -20 -23 Truro 25 -20 -22 Wolfville 35 -19 -21 Yarmouth 10 -14 -16
Prince Edward Island
Charlottetown 5 -20 -22 Souris 5 -19 -21 Summerside 10 -20 -22 Tignish 10 -20 -22
Newfoundland
Argentia 15 -12 -14 Bonavista 15 -14 -16 Buchans 255 -24 -27 Cape Harrison 5 -29 -31 Cape Race 5 -11 -13 Channel-Port aux
Min. Rain,
mm mm mm
18 118 1075 1.22 1175 18 128 1050 1.20 1250 15 123 1200 1.36 1475 18 118 875 1.05 1150 18 118 1000 1.16 1175 17 118 975 1.13 1175 19 135 1125 1.32 1260
16 107 900 1.09 1150 15 112 950 1.14 1130 16 112 825 1.03 1060 16 96 800 1.01 1100
15 107 1250 1.47 1400 18 96 825 1.11 1010 13 107 850 1.04 1125 10 106 475 0.94 950 18 130 1425 1.66 1550
13 123 1175 1.43 1520
13 91 875 1.08 1190 18 91 775 1.01 1180 15 123 1350 1.58 1525 15 86 775 0.97 1030
18 80 575 0.83 960
15 70 500 0.82 880 13 86 800 1.07 1280 18 118 1200 1.41 1575 14 102 1000 1.19 1275 15 70 500 0.85 950 18 112 1125 1.34 1500 15 70 500 0.82 880
8 43 190 0.57 275 10 49 200 0.57 350 8 49 190 0.62 300 10 33 215 0.58 315 8 51 145 0.56 315 8 59 290 0.57 350 10 38 200 0.51 340
Basques
5 -13 -15
°C °C
27 21 27 21 27 21 27 21 27 21 28 21 22 19
26 21 27 21 27 21 27 21
21 18 24 19 27 20 26 16 19 18
19 18
26 20 27 20 20 18 27 20
27 19
24 17 22 18 24 20 24 19 24 17 24 20 24 17
23 15 26 16 23 14 25 16 24 14 23 16 24 15
18°C
4540
4400
4530
4380
4500
4140
3990
4460
4550
4600
4770
4600
5000
5250
6900
4900
5000
4760
5110
4550
5020
6670
7710
6440
4800
4850
7790
4750
7710
7500
8120
7800
7300
7100
8300
6770
Corner Brook 35 -16 -18
Gander 125 -18 -20
Grand Bank 5 -14 -15
Grand Falls 60 -26 -29
Happy Valley-Goose Bay
15 -31 -32
Labrador City 550 -36 -38 St. Anthony 10 -25 -27 St. John’s 65 -15 -16 Stephenville 25 -16 -18 Twin Falls 425 -35 -37 Wabana 75 -15 -17 Wabush 550 -36 -38
Yukon
Aishihik 920 -44 -46 Dawson 330 -50 -51 Destruction Bay 815 -43 -45 Faro 670 -46 -47 Haines Junction 600 -45 -47 Snag 595 -51 -53 Teslin 690 -42 -44
Design Temperature January July 2.5%
De- One gree- 15 Day
Ann.
Driv- Ann. ing Rain
Snow Load, kPa, 1/50
Hourly Wind Pressures, kPa
1/10 1/50
0.37 0.48 0.39 0.50 0.46 0.59 0.43 0.55 0.37 0.48 0.42 0.54 0.43 0.56
0.43 0.56 0.45 0.58 0.47 0.60 0.51 0.66
0.58 0.75 0.65 0.84 0.47 0.60 0.47 0.60 0.81 1.05
0.60 0.78
0.43 0.55 0.47 0.60 0.57 0.74 0.47 0.60
0.33 0.42
0.31 0.40 0.67 0.87 0.60 0.78 0.45 0.58 0.31 0.40 0.58 0.75 0.31 0.40
0.29 0.38 0.24 0.31 0.47 0.60 0.27 0.35 0.26 0.34 0.24 0.31 0.26 0.34
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division B C-27
Days Dry Wet Below
Moist. Tot. Wind
Table C-2 (Continued)
Rain,
Rain, 1/50, mm Index Ppn.,
Pres-
sures, Ss
Pa, 1/5
220 3.1 240 1.8 300 2.3 260 2.2 240 2.0 260 2.6 280 1.8
350 2.7 350 2.7 350 3.1 350 3.2
400 2.4 400 3.1 200 4.7 350 6.3 400 2.3
450 3.6
300 3.7 280 3.7 400 2.4 240 3.4
160 5.3
140 4.8 450 6.1 400 2.9 350 4.1 120 4.8 400 3.0 140 4.8
40 1.9 40 2.9 80 1.9 40 2.3
180 2.2 40 2.2 40 3.0
Sr
0.6 0.6 0.6 0.6 0.6 0.6 0.6
0.6 0.6 0.6 0.6
0.7 0.6 0.6 0.4 0.7
0.7
0.6 0.6 0.7 0.6
0.4
0.3 0.6 0.7 0.6 0.4 0.7 0.3
0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1
              © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Appendix C
Division B
Province and Location Elev.,
m 2.5% 1%
°C °C
Watson Lake 685 -46 -48
Whitehorse 655 -41 -43
Northwest Territories
Aklavik 5 -42 -44 Echo Bay / Port Radium 195 -42 -44 Fort Good Hope 100 -43 -45 Fort McPherson 25 -44 -46 Fort Providence 150 -40 -43 Fort Resolution 160 -40 -42 Fort Simpson 120 -42 -44 Fort Smith 205 -41 -43 Hay River 45 -38 -41 Holman/
10 -39 -41
Ulukhaqtuuq
Inuvik 45 -43 -45 Mould Bay 5 -44 -46 Norman Wells 65 -43 -45 Rae-Edzo 160 -42 -44 Tungsten 1340 -49 -51 Wrigley 80 -42 -44 Yellowknife 160 -41 -44
Nunavut
Alert 5 -43 -44 Arctic Bay 15 -42 -44 Arviat / Eskimo Point 5 -40 -41 Baker Lake 5 -42 -44 Cambridge
Dry Wet °C °C
26 16 25 15
26 17 22 16 28 18 26 17 28 18 26 18 28 19 28 19 27 18
Below Rain, 1/50, mm 18°C mm mm
Ss Sr 1/10 1/50
3.2 0.1 0.27 0.35 2.0 0.1 0.29 0.38
2.8 0.1 0.37 0.48 3.0 0.1 0.41 0.53 2.9 0.1 0.34 0.44 3.2 0.1 0.31 0.40 2.4 0.1 0.27 0.35 2.3 0.1 0.30 0.39 2.3 0.1 0.30 0.39 2.3 0.2 0.30 0.39 2.4 0.1 0.27 0.35
2.1 0.1 0.66 0.86
3.1 0.1 0.37 0.48 1.5 0.1 0.45 0.58 3.0 0.1 0.34 0.44 2.3 0.1 0.36 0.47 4.3 0.1 0.34 0.44 2.8 0.1 0.30 0.39 2.2 0.1 0.36 0.47
2.6 0.1 0.58 0.75 2.4 0.1 0.43 0.55 3.0 0.2 0.45 0.58 3.4 0.2 0.42 0.54
1.9 0.1 0.42 0.54
3.6 0.2 0.43 0.56
4.2 0.2 0.56 0.72
3.4 0.1 0.36 0.46
3.8 0.2 0.54 0.69 1.6 0.1 0.43 0.55 2.9 0.2 0.45 0.58 1.9 0.1 0.47 0.60 4.7 0.2 0.60 0.78
3.0 0.2 0.47 0.60
Bay/Iqaluktuuttiaq
Chesterfield Inlet/Igluligaarjuk
Clyde River /Kanngiqtugaapik
Coppermine (Kugluktuk)
15 -41 -44 10 -40 -41 5 -40 -42 10 -41 -43
11 8 28 18 25 17 26 16 28 18 25 17
13 8 14 10 22 16 23 15
18 13
20 14
14 10
23 16
12900 3 33 25 8510 9 60 165 8300 10 60 175 7700 10 44 315 8050 10 54 220 8170 10 60 175
13030 3 22 20 11900 3 38 60
9850 8 65 225 10700 5 55 160
11670 4 38 70
10500 5 60 175
11300 5 44 55
10300 6 65 140
Coral Harbour /Salliq 15 -41 -42 Eureka 5 -47 -48 Iqaluit 45 -40 -41 Isachsen 10 -46 -48 Nottingham Island 30 -37 -39 Rankin Inlet
(Kangiqiniq)
10720 5 65 150 13500 3 27 25
C-28 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Design Temperature January July 2.5%
De- One
gree- 15 Day Ann. Days Min. Rain, Rain,
Driv- Ann. ing Rain
Moist. Tot. Wind Index Ppn., Pres- mm sures,
Pa, 1/5
0.55 410 60 0.49 275 40
0.67 250 60 0.70 250 80 0.60 280 80 0.67 315 60 0.56 350 100 0.61 300 140 0.56 360 80 0.56 350 80 0.62 150 140
0.93 250 120
0.67 425 60 0.94 100 140 0.57 320 80 0.59 275 80 0.75 640 40 0.58 350 80 0.58 275 100
0.95 150 100 0.90 150 160 0.85 300 240 0.84 260 180
0.89 140 100
0.88 270 240
0.90 225 220
0.84 150 80
0.87 280 200 0.95 70 100 0.86 433 200 0.95 75 140 0.88 325 200
0.87 250 240
Snow Load, kPa, 1/50
Hourly Wind Pressures, kPa
10 -41 -42
12 9 16 13
21 15
13600 3 27 25 10000 5 54 175
10500 5 65 180
Table C-2 (Continued)
7470 10 54 250 6580 8 43 170
9600 6 49 115 9300 8 60 160 8700 9 60 140 9150 6 50 145 7620 10 71 210 7750 10 60 175 7660 12 76 225 7300 10 65 250 7550 10 60 200
18 12
26 17 9600 6 49 115
10700 3 44 80
20 14
12 8
17 12 9980 5 58 200
             © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
Appendix C
Resolute Resolution Island
Seismic Hazard
25 -42 -43 11 9 12360 3 27 50 0.93 140 180 2.0 0.1 0.54 0.69 5 -32 -34 12 10 9000 5 71 240 0.89 550 200 5.5 0.2 0.95 1.23
Design Temperature January July 2.5%
Table C-2 (Continued)
De- One
gree- 15 Day Ann. Days Min. Rain, Rain,
Driv- Ann. ing Rain
Snow Load, kPa, 1/50
Ss Sr
Hourly Wind Pressures, kPa
1/10 1/50
Province and Location Elev.,
m 2.5% 1% Dry Wet Below Rain, 1/50, mm Index Ppn., Pres-
°C °C °C °C 18°C mm mm mm sures, Pa, 1/5
The parameters used to represent seismic hazard for specific geographical locations are the 5%-damped horizontal spectral acceleration for 0.2, 0.5, 1.0, 2.0, 5.0 and 10.0 second periods, the horizontal Peak Ground Acceleration (PGA) and the horizontal Peak Ground Velocity (PGV), with all values given for a 2% probability of being exceeded in 50 years. The six spectral parameters are deemed sufficient to define spectra closely matching the shape of the Uniform Hazard Spectra (UHS). Hazard values are mean values based on a statistical analysis of the earthquakes that have been experienced in Canada and adjacent regions.(11) The seismic hazard values were updated for the 2015 edition of the Code by updating the earthquake catalogue, revising the seismic source zones, adding fault sources for the Cascadia subduction zone and certain other active faults, revising the Ground Motion Prediction Equations (GMPEs),(12) and using a probabilistic model to combine all inputs.
For most locations, the new GMPEs are the most significant reason for changes in the hazard results from the NBC 2010. One exception is for areas of western Canada for which adding the Cascadia subduction source contribution to the model probabilistically causes the most significant change. In general, for locations in eastern Canada, the seismic hazard at long periods has increased while the seismic hazard at short periods has decreased—in some places significantly. For locations in western Canada, the seismic hazard at long periods has increased significantly for areas affected by the Cascadia interface. For other areas, the explicit inclusion of fault sources, such as those in Haida Gwaii and the Yukon, has also affected the estimated hazard.
Further details regarding the representation of seismic hazard can be found in the Commentary on Design for Seismic Effects in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B).”
Province and Location
British Columbia
100 Mile House Abbotsford Agassiz
Alberni Ashcroft Bamfield Beatton River Bella Bella Bella Coola Burns Lake Cache Creek Campbell River Carmi Castlegar Chetwynd
Sa(0.2) Sa(0.5)
0.140 0.113 0.701 0.597 0.457 0.384 0.955 0.915 0.198 0.160 1.44 1.35 0.132 0.083 0.208 0.232 0.163 0.172 0.095 0.080 0.195 0.157 0.595 0.582 0.141 0.120 0.129 0.100 0.176 0.121
Seismic Data
Sa(1.0) Sa(2.0) Sa(5.0) Sa(10.0)
0.083 0.058 0.027 0.0080 0.350 0.215 0.071 0.025 0.244 0.157 0.057 0.020 0.594 0.373 0.124 0.044 0.115 0.078 0.034 0.011 0.871 0.525 0.167 0.059 0.049 0.026 0.0083 0.0037 0.187 0.129 0.049 0.017 0.143 0.105 0.043 0.014 0.066 0.052 0.024 0.0076 0.112 0.077 0.034 0.010 0.408 0.265 0.094 0.034 0.090 0.062 0.028 0.0086 0.074 0.048 0.022 0.0069 0.068 0.033 0.013 0.0045
PGA PGV
0.064 0.109 0.306 0.445 0.206 0.306 0.434 0.683 0.092 0.149 0.682 0.931 0.079 0.056 0.103 0.286 0.083 0.225 0.043 0.111 0.090 0.148 0.283 0.487 0.065 0.111 0.058 0.085 0.082 0.071
Table C-3
Seismic Design Data for Selected Locations in Canada
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division B C-29
Moist.
Tot. Wind
             © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Appendix C
Division B
C-30
Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Province and Location
Chilliwack Comox Courtenay Cranbrook Crescent Valley Crofton Dawson Creek Dease Lake Dog Creek Duncan
Elko
Fernie
Fort Nelson Fort St. John Glacier
Gold River Golden
Grand Forks Greenwood Hope
Jordan River Kamloops Kaslo
Kelowna Kimberley Kitimat Plant Kitimat Townsite Ladysmith Langford Lillooet
Lytton Mackenzie Masset McBride McLeod Lake Merritt
Mission City Montrose Nakusp Nanaimo Nelson
Ocean Falls
Table C-3 (Continued)
Seismic Data
Sa(0.2) Sa(0.5) Sa(1.0) Sa(2.0) Sa(5.0) Sa(10.0) PGA
PGV
0.347 0.538 0.545 0.085 0.082 0.754 0.059 0.078 0.140 0.786 0.101 0.101 0.071 0.058 0.083 0.743 0.095 0.101 0.105 0.251 0.923 0.117 0.076 0.115 0.080 0.224 0.224 0.738 0.852 0.188 0.197 0.078 0.632 0.097 0.078 0.160 0.419 0.086 0.079 0.684 0.080 0.258
0.539 0.448 0.685 0.662 0.692 0.670 0.170 0.138 0.130 0.101 1.13 1.04 0.150 0.098 0.103 0.091 0.172 0.140 1.17 1.09 0.217 0.174 0.234 0.175 0.141 0.103 0.145 0.094 0.206 0.142 1.01 0.988 0.263 0.174 0.133 0.108 0.136 0.113 0.363 0.304 1.40 1.31 0.146 0.123 0.142 0.109 0.143 0.122 0.165 0.130 0.161 0.167 0.161 0.167 1.10 1.02 1.32 1.19 0.285 0.214 0.292 0.228 0.165 0.117 0.791 0.744 0.253 0.165 0.153 0.110 0.211 0.175 0.644 0.550 0.129 0.102 0.135 0.102 1.02 0.942 0.131 0.103 0.180 0.199
0.277 0.174 0.455 0.292 0.461 0.296 0.089 0.047 0.073 0.047 0.598 0.358 0.055 0.026 0.074 0.049 0.102 0.071 0.631 0.378 0.108 0.053 0.106 0.052 0.068 0.036 0.053 0.026 0.081 0.044 0.664 0.413 0.094 0.046 0.082 0.056 0.085 0.059 0.201 0.131 0.817 0.495 0.091 0.064 0.073 0.043 0.091 0.063 0.084 0.045 0.137 0.096 0.137 0.096 0.587 0.353 0.697 0.415 0.145 0.096 0.155 0.103 0.066 0.036 0.496 0.283 0.089 0.044 0.064 0.037 0.125 0.085 0.327 0.204 0.075 0.049 0.070 0.045 0.542 0.328 0.073 0.046 0.163 0.117
0.062 0.021 0.102 0.036 0.104 0.037 0.018 0.0062 0.021 0.0067 0.111 0.039 0.0080 0.0032 0.017 0.0067 0.032 0.0098 0.118 0.042 0.019 0.0066 0.019 0.0065 0.012 0.0049 0.0077 0.0032 0.018 0.0058 0.135 0.048 0.017 0.0056 0.026 0.0079 0.027 0.0082 0.051 0.017 0.157 0.055 0.029 0.0087 0.019 0.0062 0.029 0.0087 0.018 0.0060 0.036 0.012 0.036 0.012 0.110 0.039 0.130 0.045 0.040 0.013 0.042 0.013 0.015 0.0052 0.083 0.029 0.018 0.0056 0.016 0.0053 0.037 0.011 0.069 0.024 0.022 0.0069 0.020 0.0063 0.104 0.037 0.020 0.0065 0.046 0.015
0.242 0.317 0.321 0.075 0.058 0.491 0.080 0.044 0.079 0.513 0.098 0.106 0.081 0.079 0.093 0.466 0.120 0.061 0.063 0.167 0.639 0.067 0.063 0.066 0.073 0.080 0.080 0.482 0.590 0.132 0.136 0.074 0.364 0.117 0.068 0.098 0.283 0.058 0.060 0.446 0.058 0.091
            © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
Appendix C
Province and Location
Osoyoos
Parksville
Penticton
Port Alberni
Port Alice
Port Hardy
Port McNeill
Port Renfrew
Powell River
Prince George Prince Rupert Princeton
Qualicum Beach Queen Charlotte City Quesnel
Revelstoke Salmon Arm Sandspit Sechelt Sidney Smith River Smithers Sooke Squamish Stewart Tahsis Taylor Terrace Tofino
Trail
Ucluelet Vancouver Region
Burnaby (Simon Fraser Univ.) Cloverdale
Haney
Ladner
Langley
New Westminster
North Vancouver Richmond
Surrey (88 Ave & 156 St.) Vancouver (City Hall)
Table C-3 (Continued)
Seismic Data
Sa(0.2) Sa(0.5) Sa(1.0) Sa(2.0) Sa(5.0) Sa(10.0) PGA
PGV
0.138 0.639 0.129 0.702 0.868 0.543 0.557 0.939 0.457 0.079 0.314 0.182 0.629 0.989 0.091 0.078 0.093 0.868 0.555 0.790 0.255 0.134 0.885 0.404 0.180 0.852 0.058 0.200 0.945 0.087 0.949
0.500 0.519 0.452 0.601 0.500 0.522 0.518 0.578 0.511 0.553
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division B C-31
0.175 0.150 0.917 0.859 0.159 0.138 0.987 0.946 1.60 1.27 0.700 0.659 0.711 0.678 1.44 1.35 0.595 0.556 0.113 0.089 0.246 0.269 0.259 0.209 0.888 0.838 1.62 1.37 0.105 0.088 0.145 0.109 0.131 0.104 1.31 1.16 0.828 0.745 1.23 1.10 0.705 0.447 0.100 0.090 1.34 1.24 0.600 0.517 0.139 0.132 1.35 1.19 0.143 0.093 0.146 0.145 1.46 1.36 0.129 0.101 1.48 1.38
0.768 0.673 0.800 0.702 0.691 0.602 0.924 0.827 0.772 0.674 0.800 0.704 0.794 0.699 0.885 0.787 0.786 0.690 0.848 0.751
0.110 0.075 0.033 0.519 0.322 0.106 0.101 0.070 0.031 0.614 0.383 0.126 0.759 0.412 0.128 0.447 0.272 0.091 0.464 0.285 0.096 0.850 0.511 0.162 0.373 0.242 0.086 0.059 0.040 0.019 0.209 0.135 0.046 0.144 0.096 0.040 0.517 0.323 0.108 0.842 0.452 0.124 0.065 0.047 0.022 0.070 0.043 0.019 0.075 0.052 0.024 0.724 0.396 0.110 0.434 0.265 0.086 0.630 0.371 0.115 0.234 0.100 0.028 0.076 0.058 0.025 0.752 0.456 0.144 0.314 0.200 0.069 0.111 0.078 0.029 0.767 0.456 0.144 0.052 0.025 0.0076 0.120 0.085 0.032 0.891 0.536 0.170 0.075 0.050 0.022 0.897 0.539 0.171
0.386 0.236 0.076 0.400 0.243 0.077 0.352 0.217 0.071 0.461 0.276 0.085 0.387 0.236 0.076 0.401 0.244 0.077 0.399 0.243 0.077 0.443 0.266 0.083 0.394 0.240 0.076 0.425 0.257 0.080
0.010 0.081 0.038 0.405 0.0096 0.074 0.045 0.450 0.042 0.689 0.032 0.320 0.034 0.326 0.057 0.668 0.031 0.273 0.0059 0.049 0.016 0.117 0.012 0.121 0.038 0.395 0.041 0.757 0.0069 0.047 0.0062 0.064 0.0073 0.059 0.036 0.603 0.030 0.363 0.040 0.545 0.0096 0.354 0.0082 0.047 0.050 0.605 0.024 0.266 0.010 0.068 0.050 0.622 0.0031 0.079 0.011 0.072 0.060 0.695 0.0070 0.058 0.060 0.708
0.027 0.333 0.027 0.347 0.025 0.301 0.030 0.399 0.027 0.335 0.027 0.347 0.027 0.345 0.029 0.383 0.027 0.341 0.029 0.369
            © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Appendix C
Division B
Province and Location
Vancouver (Granville & 41 Ave)
West Vancouver Vernon
Victoria Region
Victoria (Gonzales Hts) Victoria (Mt Tolmie) Victoria
Whistler White Rock Williams Lake Youbou
Alberta
Athabasca
Banff
Barrhead Beaverlodge Brooks
Calgary
Campsie Camrose Canmore Cardston Claresholm
Cold Lake Coleman Coronation Cowley Drumheller Edmonton
Edson
Embarras Portage Fairview
Fort MacLeod
Fort McMurray Fort Saskatchewan Fort Vermilion Grande Prairie Habay
Hardisty
High River
Hinton
Jasper
Table C-3 (Continued)
Sa(0.2) Sa(0.5) Sa(1.0)
0.863 0.765 0.432 0.818 0.721 0.410 0.133 0.108 0.080
1.30 1.15 0.668 1.29 1.14 0.662 1.30 1.16 0.676 0.438 0.357 0.233 0.868 0.765 0.432 0.136 0.110 0.081 1.20 1.13 0.678
0.068 0.043 0.027 0.279 0.184 0.099 0.105 0.064 0.038 0.153 0.102 0.057 0.116 0.076 0.051 0.192 0.126 0.072 0.113 0.067 0.040 0.095 0.058 0.035 0.278 0.183 0.098 0.273 0.203 0.122 0.217 0.148 0.090 0.055 0.034 0.019 0.279 0.195 0.114 0.075 0.048 0.029 0.282 0.198 0.116 0.122 0.077 0.048 0.103 0.062 0.036 0.165 0.111 0.062 0.052 0.031 0.016 0.121 0.071 0.041 0.225 0.160 0.097 0.053 0.034 0.018 0.086 0.053 0.032 0.056 0.036 0.019 0.141 0.093 0.053 0.068 0.045 0.033 0.068 0.043 0.027 0.203 0.134 0.079 0.280 0.182 0.096 0.287 0.190 0.101
Seismic Data Sa(2.0) Sa(5.0)
0.261 0.081 0.250 0.079 0.056 0.025
0.394 0.123 0.390 0.121 0.399 0.125 0.152 0.058 0.260 0.081 0.057 0.027 0.414 0.131
0.014 0.0041 0.046 0.016 0.019 0.0055 0.028 0.0090 0.028 0.0089 0.036 0.012 0.020 0.0058 0.018 0.0052 0.046 0.016 0.058 0.018 0.044 0.015 0.0078 0.0016 0.054 0.019 0.015 0.0046 0.055 0.018 0.026 0.0080 0.018 0.0053 0.030 0.0089 0.0065 0.0013 0.020 0.0059 0.047 0.015 0.0078 0.0016 0.017 0.0050 0.0081 0.0018 0.026 0.0074 0.020 0.0067 0.014 0.0041 0.039 0.013 0.043 0.015 0.046 0.017
Sa(10.0) PGA
0.029 0.375 0.028 0.356 0.0077 0.061
0.043 0.576 0.042 0.573 0.044 0.580 0.020 0.203 0.029 0.376 0.0080 0.062 0.046 0.536
0.0018 0.039 0.0053 0.128 0.0024 0.065 0.0035 0.081 0.0042 0.072 0.0048 0.098 0.0024 0.070 0.0022 0.058 0.0053 0.128 0.0066 0.131 0.0056 0.107 0.0008 0.032 0.0065 0.128 0.0020 0.044 0.0065 0.130 0.0037 0.075 0.0022 0.064 0.0035 0.087 0.0007 0.030 0.0025 0.075 0.0058 0.111 0.0008 0.031 0.0021 0.052 0.0008 0.032 0.0031 0.079 0.0031 0.040 0.0018 0.040 0.0052 0.101 0.0048 0.131 0.0052 0.132
PGV
0.563 0.534 0.099
0.829 0.824 0.834 0.296 0.562 0.110 0.816
0.031 0.097 0.046 0.062 0.056 0.075 0.048 0.042 0.097 0.118 0.089 0.023 0.110 0.034 0.113 0.055 0.044 0.066 0.020 0.051 0.095 0.023 0.038 0.024 0.058 0.036 0.031 0.079 0.097 0.101
C-32
Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
            © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
Appendix C
Province and Location
Keg River
Lac la Biche
Lacombe
Lethbridge
Manning
Medicine Hat
Peace River
Pincher Creek Ranfurly
Red Deer
Rocky Mountain House Slave Lake
Stettler
Stony Plain
Suffield
Taber
Turner Valley Valleyview
Vegreville
Vermilion
Wagner
Wainwright
Wetaskiwin
Whitecourt
Wimborne
Saskatchewan
Assiniboia Battrum Biggar Broadview Dafoe Dundurn Estevan Hudson Bay Humboldt Island Falls Kamsack Kindersley Lloydminster Maple Creek Meadow Lake Melfort Melville
Table C-3 (Continued)
Sa(0.2) Sa(0.5) Sa(1.0)
0.067 0.042 0.025 0.059 0.038 0.023 0.127 0.081 0.047 0.164 0.125 0.081 0.081 0.049 0.029 0.083 0.060 0.045 0.098 0.058 0.034 0.284 0.202 0.119 0.066 0.042 0.026 0.131 0.085 0.049 0.174 0.116 0.065 0.075 0.047 0.029 0.109 0.066 0.039 0.115 0.069 0.040 0.099 0.068 0.049 0.134 0.101 0.069 0.253 0.164 0.091 0.126 0.078 0.045 0.069 0.044 0.027 0.060 0.038 0.023 0.077 0.048 0.030 0.062 0.040 0.025 0.115 0.069 0.040 0.125 0.079 0.046 0.133 0.087 0.052
0.136 0.076 0.038 0.065 0.042 0.024 0.057 0.037 0.021 0.077 0.048 0.025 0.062 0.040 0.022 0.059 0.039 0.022 0.129 0.072 0.035 0.055 0.034 0.019 0.058 0.037 0.020 0.054 0.031 0.016 0.058 0.037 0.020 0.060 0.039 0.024 0.057 0.036 0.021 0.069 0.048 0.036 0.055 0.034 0.018 0.055 0.035 0.019 0.069 0.044 0.023
Seismic Data Sa(2.0) Sa(5.0)
0.012 0.0034 0.011 0.0033 0.023 0.0065 0.042 0.013 0.015 0.0046 0.026 0.0083 0.017 0.0052 0.056 0.019 0.013 0.0039 0.024 0.0067 0.030 0.0090 0.015 0.0046 0.019 0.0056 0.020 0.0058 0.028 0.0087 0.036 0.012 0.043 0.015 0.022 0.0064 0.014 0.0041 0.012 0.0034 0.015 0.0046 0.012 0.0037 0.020 0.0058 0.023 0.0064 0.027 0.0081
0.016 0.0034 0.012 0.0031 0.0088 0.0019 0.010 0.0022 0.0089 0.0019 0.0092 0.0019 0.015 0.0031 0.0079 0.0016 0.0085 0.0018 0.0065 0.0013 0.0085 0.0018 0.012 0.0033 0.010 0.0030 0.021 0.0068 0.0075 0.0016 0.0081 0.0018 0.0097 0.0021
Sa(10.0) PGA
0.0015 0.039 0.0015 0.034 0.0027 0.077 0.0053 0.087 0.0020 0.048 0.0039 0.050 0.0022 0.061 0.0066 0.132 0.0018 0.038 0.0028 0.078 0.0035 0.090 0.0020 0.044 0.0024 0.067 0.0025 0.071 0.0041 0.060 0.0049 0.079 0.0053 0.122 0.0027 0.077 0.0018 0.040 0.0015 0.035 0.0020 0.046 0.0017 0.036 0.0024 0.071 0.0027 0.076 0.0037 0.078
0.0014 0.084 0.0015 0.037 0.0010 0.033 0.0011 0.045 0.0010 0.036 0.0010 0.034 0.0013 0.079 0.0008 0.032 0.0010 0.033 0.0007 0.031 0.0010 0.033 0.0015 0.035 0.0015 0.033 0.0032 0.040 0.0008 0.032 0.0010 0.032 0.0011 0.040
PGV
0.030 0.027 0.055 0.079 0.036 0.047 0.043 0.115 0.030 0.056 0.067 0.034 0.047 0.050 0.052 0.070 0.093 0.054 0.031 0.027 0.035 0.028 0.048 0.054 0.058
0.054 0.030 0.025 0.034 0.027 0.027 0.051 0.023 0.025 0.021 0.025 0.028 0.025 0.039 0.023 0.024 0.031
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division B C-33
            © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Appendix C
Division B
Province and Location
Moose Jaw Nipawin
North Battleford Prince Albert Qu’Appelle Regina Rosetown Saskatoon Scott Strasbourg Swift Current Uranium City Weyburn Yorkton
Manitoba
Beausejour Boissevain Brandon Churchill Dauphin
Flin Flon
Gimli
Island Lake Lac du Bonnet Lynn Lake Morden Neepawa
Pine Falls Portage la Prairie Rivers Sandilands Selkirk
Split Lake Steinbach
Swan River
The Pas Thompson Virden
Winnipeg
Ontario
Ailsa Craig Ajax
Table C-3 (Continued)
Sa(0.2) Sa(0.5) Sa(1.0)
0.096 0.058 0.030 0.054 0.034 0.018 0.056 0.036 0.020 0.055 0.034 0.019 0.090 0.054 0.028 0.101 0.060 0.030 0.059 0.038 0.022 0.057 0.037 0.021 0.057 0.037 0.020 0.074 0.046 0.025 0.070 0.045 0.025 0.053 0.032 0.016 0.186 0.097 0.045 0.063 0.040 0.022
0.056 0.033 0.017 0.059 0.037 0.020 0.054 0.031 0.016 0.053 0.032 0.017 0.055 0.035 0.019 0.054 0.032 0.016 0.055 0.032 0.017 0.054 0.033 0.017 0.056 0.033 0.017 0.053 0.032 0.016 0.053 0.031 0.015 0.054 0.031 0.016 0.056 0.033 0.017 0.054 0.032 0.016 0.058 0.037 0.020 0.055 0.032 0.016 0.055 0.032 0.016 0.053 0.032 0.017 0.055 0.032 0.016 0.055 0.035 0.019 0.054 0.032 0.016 0.053 0.032 0.017 0.064 0.041 0.022 0.054 0.032 0.016
0.095 0.064 0.039 0.210 0.114 0.060
Seismic Data Sa(2.0) Sa(5.0)
0.013 0.0027 0.0078 0.0016 0.0085 0.0018 0.0078 0.0016 0.012 0.0025 0.013 0.0027 0.0091 0.0019 0.0089 0.0019 0.0086 0.0019 0.010 0.0022 0.012 0.0030 0.0066 0.0013 0.018 0.0039 0.0091 0.0019
0.0067 0.0015 0.0082 0.0018 0.0063 0.0013 0.0069 0.0015 0.0079 0.0018 0.0065 0.0013 0.0067 0.0015 0.0070 0.0015 0.0067 0.0015 0.0066 0.0013 0.0063 0.0013 0.0065 0.0013 0.0067 0.0015 0.0065 0.0013 0.0084 0.0018 0.0065 0.0013 0.0066 0.0013 0.0067 0.0015 0.0065 0.0013 0.0079 0.0018 0.0065 0.0013 0.0067 0.0015 0.0089 0.0019 0.0066 0.0013
0.020 0.0049 0.029 0.0071
Sa(10.0) PGA
0.0013 0.057 0.0008 0.032 0.0010 0.032 0.0008 0.032 0.0011 0.054 0.0013 0.061 0.0010 0.034 0.0010 0.033 0.0010 0.033 0.0011 0.043 0.0014 0.040 0.0007 0.031 0.0014 0.118 0.0010 0.036
0.0007 0.032 0.0010 0.034 0.0007 0.031 0.0008 0.031 0.0010 0.032 0.0007 0.031 0.0007 0.032 0.0008 0.031 0.0007 0.033 0.0007 0.031 0.0007 0.031 0.0007 0.031 0.0007 0.032 0.0007 0.031 0.0010 0.034 0.0007 0.032 0.0007 0.032 0.0007 0.031 0.0007 0.032 0.0008 0.032 0.0007 0.031 0.0007 0.031 0.0010 0.037 0.0007 0.032
0.0021 0.056 0.0028 0.134
PGV
0.042 0.023 0.024 0.023 0.039 0.043 0.027 0.025 0.025 0.032 0.032 0.021 0.070 0.028
0.021 0.025 0.020 0.021 0.024 0.021 0.021 0.021 0.023 0.021 0.020 0.021 0.021 0.021 0.025 0.021 0.021 0.021 0.021 0.024 0.021 0.021 0.028 0.021
0.050 0.091
C-34 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
            © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
Appendix C
Province and Location
Alexandria
Alliston
Almonte
Armstrong
Arnprior
Atikokan
Attawapiskat
Aurora
Bancroft
Barrie
Barriefield
Beaverton
Belleville
Belmont
Kitchenuhmay-koosib (Big Trout Lake) CFB Borden
Bracebridge Bradford Brampton Brantford Brighton Brockville Burk’s Falls Burlington Cambridge Campbellford Cannington Carleton Place Cavan Centralia Chapleau Chatham Chesley Clinton Coboconk Cobourg Cochrane Colborne Collingwood Cornwall Corunna
Deep River
Table C-3 (Continued)
Sa(0.2) Sa(0.5) Sa(1.0)
0.589 0.309 0.148 0.111 0.076 0.046 0.337 0.188 0.098 0.064 0.037 0.019 0.371 0.201 0.102 0.069 0.038 0.018 0.074 0.043 0.022 0.138 0.087 0.050 0.151 0.105 0.063 0.108 0.077 0.047 0.162 0.110 0.066 0.117 0.082 0.050 0.162 0.105 0.061 0.116 0.073 0.042 0.054 0.033 0.017 0.107 0.075 0.046 0.116 0.084 0.051 0.123 0.081 0.048 0.168 0.096 0.052 0.155 0.089 0.049 0.173 0.106 0.060 0.259 0.157 0.086 0.143 0.096 0.057 0.266 0.131 0.062 0.141 0.084 0.047 0.144 0.097 0.058 0.122 0.084 0.051 0.302 0.175 0.093 0.140 0.092 0.055 0.092 0.064 0.039 0.071 0.050 0.031 0.112 0.070 0.039 0.083 0.062 0.040 0.084 0.061 0.038 0.120 0.086 0.052 0.179 0.106 0.059 0.222 0.107 0.052 0.176 0.106 0.060 0.096 0.070 0.044 0.587 0.307 0.147 0.087 0.060 0.036 0.389 0.208 0.104
Seismic Data Sa(2.0) Sa(5.0)
0.068 0.018 0.024 0.0059 0.048 0.013 0.0081 0.0018 0.049 0.013 0.0072 0.0015 0.0092 0.0019 0.026 0.0064 0.032 0.0084 0.025 0.0061 0.034 0.0089 0.026 0.0065 0.031 0.0080 0.021 0.0053 0.0072 0.0015 0.024 0.0059 0.027 0.0068 0.025 0.0062 0.026 0.0064 0.024 0.0059 0.030 0.0076 0.043 0.011 0.029 0.0074 0.029 0.0068 0.024 0.0058 0.030 0.0076 0.027 0.0067 0.046 0.012 0.028 0.0071 0.020 0.0050 0.016 0.0037 0.019 0.0047 0.021 0.0052 0.020 0.0049 0.027 0.0070 0.030 0.0074 0.024 0.0058 0.030 0.0076 0.023 0.0058 0.067 0.017 0.018 0.0046 0.049 0.013
Sa(10.0) PGA
0.0062 0.376 0.0025 0.066 0.0049 0.215 0.0008 0.038 0.0049 0.238 0.0007 0.041 0.0010 0.045 0.0027 0.085 0.0035 0.090 0.0025 0.063 0.0038 0.098 0.0028 0.069 0.0034 0.100 0.0021 0.070 0.0008 0.032 0.0025 0.063 0.0028 0.068 0.0027 0.074 0.0025 0.106 0.0024 0.097 0.0032 0.108 0.0046 0.164 0.0031 0.086 0.0027 0.172 0.0024 0.088 0.0032 0.088 0.0028 0.073 0.0048 0.192 0.0030 0.086 0.0021 0.054 0.0017 0.041 0.0020 0.068 0.0022 0.047 0.0021 0.048 0.0030 0.070 0.0031 0.113 0.0022 0.145 0.0031 0.111 0.0024 0.055 0.0060 0.375 0.0020 0.050 0.0048 0.250
PGV
0.255 0.060 0.157 0.025 0.168 0.025 0.030 0.068 0.085 0.060 0.091 0.064 0.087 0.056 0.023 0.059 0.067 0.063 0.074 0.068 0.087 0.131 0.076 0.102 0.066 0.078 0.067 0.146 0.074 0.050 0.039 0.054 0.050 0.048 0.068 0.086 0.083 0.087 0.056 0.254 0.047 0.172
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division B C-35
            © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Appendix C
Division B
C-36
Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Province and Location
Deseronto Dorchester Dorion Dresden Dryden Dundalk Dunnville Durham Dutton Earlton Edison
Elliot Lake Elmvale Embro Englehart Espanola Exeter Fenelon Falls Fergus Forest
Fort Erie
Fort Erie (Ridgeway)
Fort Frances
Gananoque
Geraldton
Glencoe
Goderich
Gore Bay
Graham
Gravenhurst (Muskoka Airport) Grimsby
Guelph
Guthrie
Haileybury
Haldimand (Caledonia) Haldimand (Hagersville) Haliburton
Halton Hills (Georgetown) Hamilton
Hanover
Hastings
Hawkesbury
Table C-3 (Continued)
Sa(0.2) Sa(0.5) Sa(1.0)
0.158 0.106 0.062 0.112 0.072 0.042 0.059 0.035 0.018 0.104 0.067 0.039 0.072 0.040 0.019 0.097 0.069 0.043 0.232 0.120 0.059 0.088 0.065 0.041 0.116 0.072 0.041 0.182 0.108 0.059 0.070 0.039 0.019 0.074 0.054 0.035 0.101 0.074 0.046 0.111 0.072 0.042 0.175 0.104 0.057 0.086 0.063 0.039 0.090 0.063 0.039 0.121 0.086 0.052 0.115 0.075 0.045 0.087 0.061 0.037 0.312 0.152 0.070 0.307 0.149 0.069 0.064 0.035 0.017 0.180 0.119 0.070 0.057 0.036 0.019 0.107 0.068 0.040 0.079 0.059 0.037 0.071 0.055 0.035 0.071 0.039 0.020 0.112 0.082 0.050 0.301 0.146 0.068 0.133 0.082 0.047 0.109 0.078 0.048 0.219 0.127 0.067 0.215 0.112 0.056 0.172 0.096 0.051 0.133 0.095 0.057 0.155 0.090 0.050 0.260 0.128 0.061 0.085 0.063 0.040 0.141 0.096 0.057 0.506 0.268 0.131
Seismic Data Sa(2.0) Sa(5.0)
0.032 0.0081 0.021 0.0052 0.0076 0.0016 0.019 0.0047 0.0076 0.0016 0.022 0.0056 0.028 0.0067 0.021 0.0053 0.021 0.0050 0.029 0.0074 0.0075 0.0016 0.018 0.0046 0.024 0.0061 0.022 0.0053 0.029 0.0073 0.021 0.0052 0.020 0.0049 0.027 0.0068 0.023 0.0056 0.019 0.0047 0.032 0.0074 0.031 0.0073 0.0069 0.0015 0.036 0.0095 0.0082 0.0018 0.020 0.0049 0.019 0.0049 0.018 0.0047 0.0079 0.0016 0.026 0.0067 0.030 0.0073 0.024 0.0058 0.025 0.0062 0.033 0.0083 0.027 0.0064 0.025 0.0061 0.030 0.0077 0.025 0.0062 0.028 0.0068 0.021 0.0052 0.029 0.0074 0.062 0.016
Sa(10.0) PGA
0.0035 0.096 0.0021 0.067 0.0008 0.035 0.0020 0.062 0.0008 0.043 0.0024 0.057 0.0027 0.149 0.0022 0.051 0.0021 0.071 0.0030 0.114 0.0008 0.042 0.0020 0.043 0.0025 0.059 0.0022 0.067 0.0030 0.109 0.0021 0.050 0.0021 0.052 0.0030 0.072 0.0024 0.069 0.0020 0.051 0.0028 0.202 0.0028 0.198 0.0007 0.039 0.0039 0.110 0.0010 0.033 0.0021 0.064 0.0020 0.045 0.0020 0.040 0.0008 0.043 0.0028 0.065 0.0028 0.195 0.0024 0.082 0.0027 0.064 0.0034 0.138 0.0025 0.138 0.0024 0.108 0.0032 0.079 0.0025 0.097 0.0027 0.168 0.0022 0.049 0.0031 0.085 0.0058 0.326
PGV
0.087 0.056 0.024 0.051 0.027 0.055 0.093 0.051 0.056 0.086 0.027 0.043 0.059 0.056 0.083 0.050 0.050 0.068 0.059 0.047 0.117 0.115 0.024 0.099 0.024 0.054 0.047 0.044 0.027 0.064 0.113 0.063 0.062 0.101 0.087 0.074 0.076 0.070 0.101 0.050 0.076 0.224
             © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
Appendix C
Province and Location
Hearst
Honey Harbour
Hornepayne
Huntsville
Ingersoll
Iroquois Falls
Jellicoe
Kapuskasing
Kemptville
Kenora
Killaloe
Kincardine
Kingston
Kinmount
Kirkland Lake
Kitchener
Lakefield
Lansdowne House
Leamington
Lindsay
Lion’s Head
Listowel
London
Lucan
Maitland
Markdale
Markham
Martin
Matheson
Mattawa
Midland
Milton
Milverton
Minden
Mississauga
Mississauga (Lester B. Pearson Int’l Airport) Mississauga (Port Credit)
Mitchell
Moosonee
Morrisburg
Mount Forest
Nakina
Nanticoke (Jarvis)
Table C-3 (Continued)
Sa(0.2) Sa(0.5) Sa(1.0)
0.073 0.048 0.028 0.103 0.076 0.047 0.063 0.043 0.025 0.129 0.091 0.054 0.116 0.073 0.043 0.196 0.101 0.052 0.057 0.035 0.019 0.112 0.064 0.035 0.429 0.229 0.114 0.064 0.036 0.018 0.264 0.154 0.083 0.076 0.058 0.037 0.161 0.110 0.065 0.123 0.089 0.054 0.159 0.095 0.053 0.122 0.077 0.045 0.130 0.091 0.055 0.056 0.035 0.019 0.114 0.070 0.038 0.126 0.087 0.052 0.080 0.062 0.040 0.093 0.066 0.041 0.108 0.070 0.041 0.097 0.065 0.039 0.282 0.167 0.090 0.089 0.066 0.042 0.182 0.103 0.056 0.072 0.039 0.019 0.160 0.091 0.050 0.446 0.237 0.114 0.101 0.075 0.046 0.191 0.103 0.054 0.098 0.067 0.041 0.124 0.089 0.054 0.219 0.115 0.058 0.193 0.105 0.056 0.247 0.125 0.062 0.093 0.065 0.040 0.081 0.051 0.029 0.558 0.287 0.135 0.093 0.067 0.041 0.057 0.036 0.019 0.156 0.090 0.049
Seismic Data Sa(2.0) Sa(5.0)
0.013 0.0031 0.025 0.0062 0.012 0.0028 0.028 0.0071 0.022 0.0053 0.025 0.0061 0.0081 0.0018 0.017 0.0040 0.054 0.014 0.0072 0.0015 0.041 0.011 0.019 0.0049 0.034 0.0089 0.028 0.0071 0.027 0.0067 0.023 0.0056 0.028 0.0073 0.0078 0.0016 0.018 0.0044 0.027 0.0068 0.021 0.0052 0.021 0.0052 0.021 0.0052 0.020 0.0050 0.045 0.012 0.022 0.0055 0.028 0.0068 0.0075 0.0015 0.025 0.0062 0.052 0.013 0.024 0.0061 0.026 0.0064 0.021 0.0053 0.028 0.0071 0.028 0.0068 0.027 0.0067 0.029 0.0070 0.021 0.0052 0.014 0.0033 0.062 0.016 0.022 0.0053 0.0082 0.0018 0.024 0.0059
Sa(10.0) PGA
0.0014 0.043 0.0027 0.060 0.0014 0.037 0.0031 0.077 0.0022 0.070 0.0024 0.127 0.0010 0.033 0.0017 0.070 0.0052 0.275 0.0007 0.038 0.0044 0.168 0.0021 0.043 0.0038 0.098 0.0031 0.072 0.0028 0.099 0.0024 0.074 0.0031 0.078 0.0008 0.033 0.0018 0.069 0.0030 0.076 0.0022 0.045 0.0022 0.054 0.0021 0.064 0.0021 0.057 0.0046 0.179 0.0022 0.052 0.0028 0.115 0.0008 0.043 0.0025 0.101 0.0046 0.285 0.0025 0.058 0.0025 0.122 0.0022 0.058 0.0031 0.073 0.0027 0.141 0.0027 0.123 0.0027 0.159 0.0021 0.054 0.0015 0.049 0.0056 0.358 0.0022 0.054 0.0010 0.033 0.0024 0.098
PGV
0.035 0.060 0.031 0.072 0.058 0.079 0.024 0.048 0.189 0.024 0.127 0.046 0.091 0.071 0.076 0.060 0.072 0.024 0.052 0.068 0.050 0.052 0.055 0.051 0.140 0.052 0.080 0.027 0.072 0.191 0.059 0.080 0.052 0.071 0.090 0.082 0.098 0.051 0.038 0.236 0.052 0.024 0.068
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division B C-37
            © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Appendix C
Division B
C-38
Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Province and Location
Nanticoke (Port Dover) Napanee
New Liskeard Newcastle
Newcastle (Bowmanville) Newmarket
Niagara Falls
North Bay
Norwood
Oakville
Orangeville
Orillia
Oshawa
Ottawa (Metropolitan)
Ottawa (City Hall) Ottawa (Barrhaven) Ottawa (Kanata)
Ottawa (M-C Int’l Airport) Ottawa (Orleans)
Owen Sound Pagwa River Paris
Parkhill
Parry Sound Pelham (Fonthill) Pembroke Penetanguishene Perth
Petawawa Peterborough
Petrolia
Pickering (Dunbarton) Picton
Plattsville
Point Alexander Port Burwell Port Colborne Port Elgin
Port Hope
Port Perry
Port Stanley Prescott
Table C-3 (Continued)
Sa(0.2) Sa(0.5) Sa(1.0)
0.144 0.085 0.047 0.156 0.106 0.063 0.209 0.122 0.065 0.186 0.107 0.058 0.188 0.107 0.058 0.132 0.085 0.050 0.321 0.157 0.072 0.247 0.145 0.076 0.136 0.094 0.057 0.260 0.129 0.062 0.115 0.076 0.046 0.109 0.079 0.049 0.192 0.108 0.058
0.439 0.237 0.118 0.427 0.230 0.115 0.401 0.218 0.110 0.446 0.240 0.119 0.474 0.252 0.124 0.083 0.064 0.041 0.060 0.040 0.023 0.141 0.084 0.047 0.092 0.063 0.038 0.110 0.079 0.048 0.311 0.152 0.070 0.379 0.203 0.101 0.101 0.074 0.046 0.225 0.142 0.080 0.379 0.202 0.101 0.135 0.092 0.055 0.092 0.062 0.037 0.219 0.117 0.060 0.159 0.104 0.061 0.119 0.075 0.044 0.391 0.209 0.104 0.132 0.079 0.044 0.298 0.146 0.068 0.077 0.060 0.038 0.181 0.106 0.059 0.144 0.091 0.053 0.123 0.075 0.043 0.350 0.195 0.101
Seismic Data Sa(2.0) Sa(5.0)
0.023 0.0058 0.033 0.0084 0.032 0.0081 0.029 0.0071 0.029 0.0071 0.026 0.0064 0.032 0.0076 0.037 0.0095 0.029 0.0074 0.029 0.0070 0.023 0.0058 0.026 0.0064 0.029 0.0071
0.056 0.015 0.055 0.015 0.053 0.014 0.056 0.015 0.058 0.015 0.021 0.0053 0.011 0.0024 0.023 0.0058 0.020 0.0049 0.025 0.0064 0.031 0.0074 0.049 0.013 0.024 0.0061 0.041 0.011 0.048 0.013 0.028 0.0071 0.019 0.0047 0.029 0.0071 0.031 0.0078 0.022 0.0055 0.049 0.013 0.022 0.0055 0.031 0.0073 0.020 0.0050 0.029 0.0073 0.027 0.0067 0.021 0.0052 0.049 0.013
Sa(10.0) PGA
0.0024 0.089 0.0037 0.095 0.0032 0.132 0.0030 0.118 0.0030 0.119 0.0027 0.081 0.0030 0.207 0.0037 0.155 0.0031 0.082 0.0027 0.167 0.0024 0.069 0.0027 0.064 0.0030 0.122
0.0055 0.281 0.0053 0.273 0.0052 0.257 0.0055 0.285 0.0056 0.304 0.0022 0.048 0.0013 0.035 0.0024 0.088 0.0020 0.054 0.0027 0.064 0.0028 0.201 0.0048 0.243 0.0025 0.058 0.0045 0.140 0.0048 0.243 0.0031 0.082 0.0020 0.054 0.0028 0.140 0.0032 0.098 0.0022 0.072 0.0048 0.251 0.0022 0.081 0.0028 0.192 0.0021 0.044 0.0030 0.114 0.0028 0.089 0.0021 0.075 0.0049 0.224
PGV
0.066 0.087 0.097 0.086 0.086 0.067 0.121 0.114 0.075 0.101 0.059 0.063 0.086
0.196 0.191 0.181 0.199 0.208 0.051 0.028 0.066 0.050 0.063 0.117 0.168 0.059 0.119 0.166 0.072 0.048 0.094 0.086 0.059 0.172 0.062 0.113 0.048 0.086 0.071 0.058 0.162
            © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
Appendix C
Province and Location
Princeton
Raith
Rayside-Balfour (Chelmsford) Red Lake
Renfrew
Richmond Hill
Rockland
Sarnia
Sault Ste. Marie
Schreiber
Seaforth
Shelburne
Simcoe
Sioux Lookout
Smiths Falls
Smithville
Smooth Rock Falls
South River
Southampton
St. Catharines
St. Mary’s
St. Thomas
Stirling
Stratford
Strathroy
Sturgeon Falls
Sudbury
Sundridge
Tavistock
Temagami
Thamesford
Thedford
Thunder Bay
Tillsonburg
Timmins
Timmins (Porcupine)
Toronto Metropolitan Region
Etobicoke
North York Scarborough Toronto (City Hall)
Trenton
Table C-3 (Continued)
Sa(0.2) Sa(0.5) Sa(1.0)
0.129 0.079 0.045 0.067 0.038 0.019 0.104 0.072 0.044 0.068 0.038 0.019 0.352 0.191 0.097 0.163 0.095 0.053 0.510 0.266 0.129 0.085 0.059 0.036 0.062 0.044 0.028 0.057 0.035 0.019 0.087 0.062 0.039 0.104 0.072 0.044 0.141 0.084 0.047 0.073 0.040 0.020 0.256 0.156 0.086 0.296 0.144 0.067 0.200 0.098 0.047 0.164 0.106 0.061 0.077 0.060 0.038 0.319 0.155 0.071 0.101 0.068 0.041 0.117 0.073 0.042 0.149 0.100 0.060 0.103 0.069 0.041 0.100 0.066 0.039 0.183 0.113 0.062 0.110 0.076 0.046 0.157 0.103 0.059 0.108 0.071 0.042 0.239 0.138 0.072 0.111 0.071 0.042 0.089 0.062 0.038 0.061 0.035 0.018 0.126 0.077 0.044 0.125 0.075 0.043 0.140 0.081 0.045
0.193 0.106 0.056 0.195 0.107 0.056 0.219 0.116 0.060 0.249 0.126 0.063 0.167 0.105 0.060
Seismic Data Sa(2.0) Sa(5.0)
0.023 0.0056 0.0078 0.0016 0.023 0.0058 0.0076 0.0016 0.047 0.013 0.027 0.0065 0.060 0.016 0.018 0.0046 0.014 0.0033 0.0079 0.0018 0.020 0.0050 0.023 0.0058 0.023 0.0058 0.0078 0.0016 0.044 0.012 0.030 0.0071 0.021 0.0050 0.031 0.0080 0.020 0.0050 0.032 0.0076 0.021 0.0052 0.021 0.0052 0.031 0.0078 0.021 0.0053 0.020 0.0049 0.031 0.0080 0.024 0.0059 0.030 0.0078 0.022 0.0053 0.035 0.0089 0.021 0.0053 0.019 0.0047 0.0075 0.0016 0.022 0.0055 0.021 0.0053 0.022 0.0055
0.027 0.0067 0.028 0.0067 0.029 0.0070 0.029 0.0071 0.030 0.0077
Sa(10.0) PGA
0.0022 0.079 0.0008 0.040 0.0024 0.061 0.0008 0.041 0.0048 0.226 0.0027 0.102 0.0056 0.328 0.0020 0.049 0.0015 0.036 0.0010 0.033 0.0021 0.050 0.0024 0.062 0.0024 0.087 0.0008 0.044 0.0046 0.161 0.0027 0.191 0.0020 0.130 0.0034 0.100 0.0021 0.044 0.0028 0.206 0.0021 0.060 0.0021 0.071 0.0034 0.091 0.0022 0.061 0.0021 0.059 0.0032 0.113 0.0025 0.065 0.0032 0.095 0.0022 0.065 0.0035 0.151 0.0022 0.066 0.0020 0.052 0.0008 0.036 0.0022 0.076 0.0022 0.078 0.0022 0.088
0.0027 0.124 0.0027 0.125 0.0028 0.140 0.0028 0.160 0.0032 0.104
PGV
0.062 0.025 0.056 0.025 0.160 0.074 0.221 0.046 0.034 0.024 0.048 0.056 0.064 0.028 0.131 0.111 0.074 0.085 0.048 0.121 0.052 0.056 0.082 0.054 0.051 0.089 0.059 0.082 0.055 0.109 0.056 0.048 0.024 0.060 0.058 0.063
0.082 0.083 0.093 0.099 0.086
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division B C-39
            © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Appendix C
Division B
Province and Location
Trout Creek
Uxbridge
Vaughan (Woodbridge) Vittoria
Walkerton Wallaceburg
Waterloo
Watford
Wawa
Welland
West Lorne
Whitby
Whitby (Brooklin) White River
Wiarton
Windsor
Wingham
Woodstock
Wyoming
Quebec
Acton-Vale Alma
Amos Asbestos Aylmer Baie-Comeau Baie-Saint-Paul Beauport Bedford
Beloeil
Brome
Brossard Buckingham Campbell’s Bay Chambly Coaticook Contrecoeur Cowansville Deux-Montagnes Dolbeau Drummondville Farnham
Table C-3 (Continued)
Sa(0.2) Sa(0.5) Sa(1.0)
0.186 0.116 0.065 0.139 0.089 0.052 0.167 0.096 0.053 0.139 0.083 0.046 0.083 0.062 0.039 0.098 0.064 0.037 0.118 0.075 0.044 0.095 0.064 0.038 0.062 0.043 0.026 0.308 0.150 0.069 0.118 0.072 0.041 0.203 0.112 0.059 0.176 0.102 0.056 0.060 0.041 0.024 0.080 0.062 0.040 0.096 0.063 0.035 0.083 0.061 0.039 0.118 0.075 0.043 0.090 0.061 0.037
0.254 0.160 0.091 0.785 0.416 0.196 0.109 0.078 0.049 0.200 0.137 0.082 0.415 0.225 0.113 0.425 0.219 0.107 1.62 0.872 0.406 0.509 0.275 0.138 0.358 0.204 0.107 0.522 0.272 0.131 0.236 0.152 0.087 0.587 0.306 0.145 0.491 0.257 0.125 0.387 0.208 0.105 0.550 0.286 0.137 0.193 0.129 0.077 0.473 0.251 0.124 0.273 0.168 0.094 0.596 0.313 0.149 0.484 0.255 0.125 0.273 0.167 0.094 0.369 0.208 0.109
Seismic Data Sa(2.0) Sa(5.0)
0.033 0.0084 0.027 0.0067 0.026 0.0065 0.023 0.0056 0.021 0.0052 0.018 0.0044 0.023 0.0056 0.019 0.0049 0.013 0.0030 0.031 0.0074 0.021 0.0050 0.029 0.0071 0.028 0.0070 0.011 0.0025 0.021 0.0052 0.017 0.0041 0.020 0.0050 0.022 0.0055 0.019 0.0047
0.047 0.013 0.089 0.022 0.026 0.0067 0.043 0.012 0.054 0.014 0.051 0.013 0.179 0.043 0.067 0.018 0.053 0.014 0.062 0.016 0.045 0.012 0.067 0.017 0.058 0.015 0.050 0.013 0.064 0.017 0.040 0.011 0.059 0.016 0.048 0.013 0.069 0.018 0.058 0.015 0.048 0.013 0.054 0.015
Sa(10.0) PGA
0.0035 0.115 0.0028 0.086 0.0027 0.105 0.0024 0.086 0.0021 0.048 0.0018 0.058 0.0022 0.072 0.0020 0.056 0.0014 0.036 0.0028 0.199 0.0021 0.072 0.0028 0.130 0.0028 0.111 0.0013 0.035 0.0022 0.046 0.0017 0.057 0.0021 0.048 0.0022 0.071 0.0020 0.053
0.0051 0.159 0.0075 0.486 0.0028 0.064 0.0049 0.123 0.0053 0.265 0.0051 0.275 0.012 0.986 0.0065 0.327 0.0053 0.228 0.0059 0.333 0.0049 0.147 0.0062 0.374 0.0056 0.316 0.0051 0.248 0.0059 0.352 0.0045 0.119 0.0058 0.303 0.0051 0.172 0.0062 0.380 0.0055 0.308 0.0052 0.172 0.0055 0.235
PGV
0.093 0.070 0.074 0.064 0.050 0.048 0.059 0.050 0.031 0.115 0.056 0.089 0.080 0.030 0.050 0.048 0.048 0.058 0.048
0.138 0.339 0.063 0.118 0.186 0.182 0.735 0.233 0.170 0.225 0.130 0.251 0.213 0.173 0.236 0.110 0.207 0.142 0.258 0.211 0.144 0.174
C-40
Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
            © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
Appendix C
Province and Location
Fort-Coulonge Gagnon
Gaspé
Gatineau Gracefield
Granby Harrington-Harbour Havre-St-Pierre Hemmingford
Hull
Iberville Inukjuak
Joliette
Kuujjuaq Kuujjuarapik
La Pocatière La-Malbaie La-Tuque Lac-Mégantic Lachute Lennoxville
Léry
Loretteville Louiseville Magog
Malartic Maniwaki Masson
Matane Mont-Joli Mont-Laurier Montmagny Montréal Region
Beaconsfield Dorval
Laval
Montréal (City Hall) Montréal-Est Montréal-Nord Outremont Pierrefonds St-Lambert
Table C-3 (Continued)
Sa(0.2) Sa(0.5) Sa(1.0)
0.391 0.210 0.105 0.078 0.060 0.040 0.128 0.090 0.056 0.442 0.238 0.119 0.426 0.222 0.109 0.275 0.169 0.094 0.072 0.056 0.037 0.231 0.122 0.062 0.546 0.290 0.141 0.432 0.234 0.117 0.520 0.273 0.132 0.065 0.040 0.022 0.457 0.241 0.119 0.074 0.054 0.036 0.056 0.035 0.019 1.51 0.817 0.384 1.73 0.954 0.454 0.196 0.137 0.082 0.193 0.130 0.077 0.518 0.274 0.133 0.187 0.129 0.077 0.603 0.318 0.152 0.502 0.268 0.134 0.366 0.201 0.105 0.196 0.133 0.079 0.135 0.092 0.055 0.430 0.220 0.107 0.498 0.261 0.127 0.455 0.230 0.110 0.427 0.226 0.113 0.419 0.212 0.103 0.601 0.341 0.172
0.602 0.317 0.152 0.600 0.316 0.151 0.595 0.311 0.148 0.595 0.311 0.148 0.586 0.305 0.145 0.593 0.309 0.147 0.597 0.313 0.149 0.599 0.315 0.151 0.590 0.307 0.146
Seismic Data Sa(2.0) Sa(5.0)
0.050 0.013 0.021 0.0055 0.029 0.0077 0.056 0.015 0.051 0.013 0.048 0.013 0.020 0.0052 0.030 0.0077 0.066 0.017 0.056 0.015 0.062 0.016 0.0094 0.0021 0.057 0.015 0.019 0.0049 0.0078 0.0016 0.170 0.041 0.203 0.049 0.043 0.012 0.040 0.011 0.063 0.016 0.041 0.011 0.070 0.018 0.065 0.017 0.052 0.014 0.042 0.011 0.029 0.0074 0.050 0.013 0.059 0.016 0.052 0.013 0.055 0.015 0.049 0.013 0.082 0.022
0.070 0.018 0.069 0.018 0.068 0.018 0.068 0.018 0.067 0.017 0.068 0.017 0.068 0.018 0.069 0.018 0.067 0.017
Sa(10.0) PGA
0.0051 0.251 0.0022 0.045 0.0032 0.076 0.0055 0.283 0.0051 0.278 0.0052 0.173 0.0022 0.041 0.0031 0.148 0.0060 0.347 0.0055 0.276 0.0059 0.332 0.0010 0.038 0.0056 0.293 0.0021 0.043 0.0008 0.032 0.012 0.927 0.014 1.04 0.0049 0.120 0.0045 0.119 0.0059 0.333 0.0046 0.114 0.0063 0.384 0.0063 0.323 0.0055 0.234 0.0046 0.120 0.0031 0.081 0.0049 0.282 0.0056 0.320 0.0051 0.295 0.0055 0.275 0.0048 0.276 0.0075 0.382
0.0063 0.383 0.0062 0.382 0.0062 0.379 0.0062 0.379 0.0062 0.374 0.0062 0.378 0.0062 0.380 0.0062 0.382 0.0062 0.376
PGV
0.174 0.048 0.074 0.197 0.185 0.144 0.046 0.097 0.239 0.195 0.225 0.028 0.201 0.043 0.024 0.690 0.809 0.119 0.111 0.228 0.110 0.262 0.227 0.170 0.114 0.074 0.184 0.216 0.191 0.191 0.177 0.286
0.260 0.259 0.256 0.255 0.250 0.254 0.256 0.259 0.252
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division B C-41
            © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Appendix C
Division B
C-42
Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Province and Location
St-Laurent Ste-Anne-de-Bellevue Verdun
Nicolet (Gentilly) Nitchequon Noranda
Percé
Pincourt
Plessisville Port-Cartier Puvirnituq
Québec City Region
Ancienne-Lorette Lévis
Québec
Sillery
Ste-Foy Richmond
Rimouski Rivière-du-Loup Roberval
Rock-Island
Rosemère
Rouyn
Saguenay
Saguenay (Bagotville) Saguenay (Jonquière) Saguenay (Kenogami) Saint-Eustache Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu Salaberry-de-Valleyfield Schefferville
Senneterre Sept-Îles
Shawinigan
Shawville
Sherbrooke
Sorel
St-Félicien St-Georges-de-Cacouna St-Hubert Saint-Hubert-de-Rivière-du-Loup
Table C-3 (Continued)
Sa(0.2) Sa(0.5) Sa(1.0)
0.598 0.314 0.149 0.602 0.317 0.152 0.596 0.312 0.149 0.364 0.201 0.106 0.062 0.047 0.031 0.132 0.088 0.052 0.114 0.084 0.053 0.602 0.318 0.152 0.250 0.160 0.092 0.323 0.169 0.084 0.108 0.058 0.029
0.487 0.258 0.130 0.493 0.265 0.134 0.493 0.265 0.133 0.486 0.260 0.131 0.488 0.261 0.131 0.208 0.140 0.083 0.408 0.224 0.116 1.16 0.616 0.288 0.688 0.353 0.164 0.199 0.133 0.078 0.591 0.309 0.147 0.134 0.089 0.052 0.791 0.425 0.204 0.801 0.434 0.210 0.798 0.428 0.206 0.799 0.428 0.206 0.593 0.311 0.149 0.522 0.274 0.133 0.602 0.318 0.152 0.059 0.042 0.027 0.114 0.083 0.052 0.295 0.156 0.078 0.306 0.179 0.098 0.386 0.208 0.105 0.187 0.129 0.078 0.406 0.220 0.113 0.488 0.259 0.127 0.857 0.478 0.234 0.581 0.302 0.144 0.468 0.279 0.147
Seismic Data Sa(2.0) Sa(5.0)
0.069 0.018 0.070 0.018 0.068 0.018 0.052 0.015 0.017 0.0041 0.027 0.0068 0.029 0.0074 0.070 0.018 0.048 0.013 0.040 0.010 0.012 0.0025
0.062 0.017 0.065 0.017 0.064 0.017 0.063 0.017 0.063 0.017 0.044 0.012 0.056 0.015 0.129 0.032 0.074 0.019 0.041 0.011 0.068 0.017 0.027 0.0068 0.095 0.024 0.098 0.025 0.095 0.024 0.095 0.024 0.068 0.018 0.062 0.016 0.070 0.018 0.014 0.0033 0.028 0.0071 0.037 0.0095 0.049 0.014 0.050 0.013 0.041 0.011 0.055 0.015 0.059 0.016 0.109 0.028 0.066 0.017 0.073 0.020
Sa(10.0) PGA
0.0062 0.381 0.0063 0.383 0.0062 0.380 0.0055 0.233 0.0018 0.035 0.0028 0.080 0.0032 0.067 0.0063 0.384 0.0052 0.157 0.0039 0.210 0.0011 0.068
0.0062 0.314 0.0063 0.317 0.0063 0.318 0.0062 0.313 0.0062 0.315 0.0049 0.128 0.0056 0.262 0.0097 0.724 0.0065 0.430 0.0046 0.123 0.0062 0.377 0.0028 0.081 0.0080 0.491 0.0083 0.498 0.0080 0.495 0.0080 0.496 0.0062 0.378 0.0059 0.333 0.0063 0.384 0.0015 0.034 0.0031 0.067 0.0038 0.191 0.0053 0.195 0.0051 0.248 0.0046 0.115 0.0056 0.259 0.0056 0.309 0.0090 0.533 0.0060 0.371 0.0069 0.298
PGV
0.258 0.262 0.256 0.170 0.038 0.070 0.068 0.262 0.140 0.137 0.043
0.220 0.225 0.225 0.221 0.221 0.121 0.192 0.517 0.287 0.113 0.255 0.070 0.353 0.362 0.354 0.354 0.256 0.227 0.262 0.031 0.067 0.126 0.154 0.173 0.111 0.184 0.212 0.396 0.248 0.237
            © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
Appendix C
Province and Location
St-Hyacinthe St-Jérôme
St-Jovite St-Lazare-Hudson St-Nicolas Ste-Agathe-des-Monts Sutton
Tadoussac Témiscaming Terrebonne Thetford Mines Thurso Trois-Rivières Val-d’Or Varennes Verchères Victoriaville Ville-Marie Wakefield Waterloo Windsor
New Brunswick
Alma
Bathurst Campbellton Edmundston Fredericton Gagetown Grand Falls Miramichi Moncton Oromocto Sackville Saint Andrews Saint George Saint John Shippagan
St. Stephen Woodstock
Nova Scotia
Amherst Antigonish
Table C-3 (Continued)
Sa(0.2) Sa(0.5) Sa(1.0)
0.369 0.208 0.109 0.539 0.282 0.135 0.428 0.222 0.110 0.597 0.315 0.151 0.466 0.248 0.125 0.431 0.226 0.112 0.243 0.154 0.088 0.694 0.399 0.202 0.820 0.411 0.181 0.584 0.304 0.144 0.207 0.142 0.084 0.492 0.258 0.126 0.366 0.200 0.105 0.135 0.093 0.056 0.571 0.296 0.141 0.537 0.278 0.134 0.233 0.152 0.089 0.262 0.148 0.076 0.409 0.222 0.111 0.232 0.150 0.087 0.194 0.134 0.080
0.144 0.096 0.058 0.217 0.127 0.071 0.210 0.133 0.076 0.231 0.153 0.089 0.210 0.127 0.071 0.195 0.119 0.068 0.254 0.153 0.085 0.214 0.125 0.069 0.158 0.100 0.059 0.209 0.126 0.071 0.140 0.093 0.057 0.874 0.436 0.189 0.578 0.298 0.135 0.199 0.121 0.068 0.143 0.096 0.058 0.781 0.380 0.163 0.206 0.129 0.074
0.130 0.089 0.055 0.098 0.076 0.050
Seismic Data Sa(2.0) Sa(5.0)
0.054 0.015 0.063 0.017 0.052 0.014 0.070 0.018 0.060 0.016 0.054 0.014 0.045 0.012 0.097 0.026 0.075 0.017 0.067 0.017 0.044 0.012 0.059 0.016 0.052 0.014 0.029 0.0076 0.065 0.017 0.062 0.016 0.046 0.013 0.037 0.0093 0.054 0.014 0.045 0.012 0.042 0.012
0.030 0.0078 0.036 0.0090 0.039 0.010 0.046 0.012 0.037 0.0093 0.035 0.0089 0.043 0.011 0.035 0.0087 0.031 0.0078 0.036 0.0092 0.030 0.0078 0.077 0.017 0.058 0.014 0.035 0.0089 0.030 0.0078 0.067 0.015 0.038 0.0099
0.030 0.0078 0.028 0.0073
Sa(10.0) PGA
0.0055 0.235 0.0059 0.346 0.0052 0.281 0.0062 0.380 0.0060 0.301 0.0053 0.282 0.0049 0.152 0.0084 0.434 0.0053 0.516 0.0060 0.373 0.0049 0.127 0.0056 0.318 0.0055 0.234 0.0032 0.081 0.0060 0.365 0.0059 0.343 0.0051 0.145 0.0037 0.166 0.0053 0.262 0.0049 0.144 0.0048 0.119
0.0034 0.088 0.0038 0.138 0.0042 0.132 0.0049 0.145 0.0039 0.133 0.0038 0.122 0.0046 0.162 0.0037 0.136 0.0034 0.098 0.0039 0.132 0.0034 0.085 0.0053 0.544 0.0048 0.367 0.0037 0.125 0.0034 0.087 0.0051 0.491 0.0042 0.130
0.0034 0.078 0.0031 0.057
PGV
0.174 0.233 0.186 0.259 0.211 0.191 0.131 0.335 0.329 0.250 0.123 0.215 0.170 0.074 0.243 0.229 0.133 0.117 0.185 0.129 0.115
0.079 0.105 0.113 0.134 0.105 0.098 0.131 0.102 0.083 0.103 0.079 0.345 0.232 0.097 0.079 0.302 0.109
0.074 0.064
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division B C-43
             © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Appendix C
Division B
Province and Location
Bridgewater Canso
Debert
Digby
Greenwood (CFB) Halifax Region
Dartmouth
Halifax Kentville
Liverpool Lockeport Louisburg Lunenburg New Glasgow North Sydney Pictou
Port Hawkesbury Springhill Stewiacke Sydney Tatamagouche Truro
Wolfville
Yarmouth
Prince Edward Island
Charlottetown Souris Summerside Tignish
Newfoundland
Argentia
Bonavista
Buchans
Cape Harrison
Cape Race
Channel-Port aux Basques Corner Brook
Gander
Grand Bank
Grand Falls
Happy Valley-Goose Bay Labrador City
Table C-3 (Continued)
Sa(0.2) Sa(0.5) Sa(1.0)
0.117 0.086 0.054 0.114 0.085 0.054 0.107 0.080 0.052 0.164 0.105 0.061 0.128 0.090 0.055
0.110 0.082 0.053 0.110 0.082 0.053 0.120 0.087 0.055 0.120 0.086 0.054 0.123 0.087 0.054 0.119 0.089 0.056 0.115 0.085 0.054 0.099 0.077 0.051 0.105 0.081 0.053 0.098 0.076 0.050 0.102 0.079 0.052 0.118 0.085 0.054 0.107 0.081 0.053 0.108 0.083 0.054 0.103 0.079 0.052 0.105 0.080 0.052 0.118 0.086 0.055 0.137 0.094 0.057
0.103 0.077 0.051 0.091 0.073 0.049 0.133 0.089 0.055 0.135 0.090 0.056
0.098 0.079 0.052 0.083 0.067 0.045 0.077 0.064 0.044 0.125 0.087 0.052 0.108 0.085 0.055 0.088 0.071 0.048 0.074 0.062 0.043 0.077 0.064 0.044 0.115 0.090 0.057 0.076 0.064 0.044 0.067 0.050 0.032 0.067 0.052 0.035
Seismic Data Sa(2.0) Sa(5.0)
0.029 0.0078 0.029 0.0078 0.029 0.0076 0.032 0.0083 0.029 0.0077
0.029 0.0076 0.029 0.0076 0.030 0.0078 0.029 0.0076 0.028 0.0074 0.030 0.0080 0.029 0.0078 0.028 0.0074 0.029 0.0076 0.028 0.0074 0.028 0.0076 0.029 0.0077 0.029 0.0077 0.029 0.0077 0.028 0.0076 0.029 0.0076 0.030 0.0078 0.030 0.0078
0.028 0.0074 0.027 0.0071 0.029 0.0076 0.030 0.0076
0.029 0.0076 0.025 0.0065 0.024 0.0064 0.028 0.0071 0.030 0.0080 0.026 0.0068 0.024 0.0062 0.024 0.0064 0.031 0.0081 0.024 0.0064 0.017 0.0044 0.019 0.0047
Sa(10.0) PGA
0.0034 0.068 0.0034 0.066 0.0032 0.062 0.0035 0.101 0.0032 0.076
0.0032 0.064 0.0032 0.064 0.0034 0.071 0.0032 0.070 0.0031 0.073 0.0035 0.069 0.0034 0.067 0.0032 0.057 0.0032 0.061 0.0031 0.057 0.0032 0.059 0.0034 0.070 0.0032 0.062 0.0034 0.063 0.0032 0.061 0.0032 0.061 0.0034 0.069 0.0034 0.082
0.0032 0.060 0.0031 0.052 0.0032 0.082 0.0032 0.083
0.0032 0.056 0.0028 0.047 0.0028 0.043 0.0031 0.074 0.0034 0.062 0.0030 0.050 0.0027 0.042 0.0027 0.044 0.0035 0.067 0.0027 0.043 0.0018 0.039 0.0020 0.038
PGV
0.071 0.071 0.068 0.085 0.074
0.068 0.068 0.072 0.070 0.071 0.074 0.070 0.064 0.068 0.064 0.066 0.071 0.068 0.070 0.066 0.067 0.071 0.075
0.066 0.062 0.075 0.076
0.066 0.056 0.054 0.068 0.071 0.059 0.052 0.054 0.074 0.054 0.040 0.042
C-44
Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
            © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
Appendix C
Province and Location
St. Anthony St. John’s Stephenville Twin Falls Wabana Wabush
Yukon
Aishihik
Dawson Destruction Bay(1) Faro
Haines Junction Snag
Teslin
Watson Lake Whitehorse
Northwest Territories
Aklavik
Echo Bay / Port Radium Fort Good Hope
Fort McPherson
Fort Providence
Fort Resolution
Fort Simpson
Fort Smith
Hay River Holman/Ulukhaqtuuq Inuvik
Mould Bay
Norman Wells Rae-Edzo
Tungsten
Wrigley
Yellowknife
Nunavut
Alert
Arctic Bay
Arviat / Eskimo Point
Baker Lake
Cambridge Bay/Iqaluktuuttiaq Chesterfield Inlet/Igluligaarjuk Clyde River /Kanngiqtugaapik
Table C-3 (Continued)
Sa(0.2) Sa(0.5) Sa(1.0)
0.073 0.057 0.038 0.090 0.073 0.049 0.077 0.064 0.044 0.064 0.047 0.030 0.089 0.072 0.048 0.067 0.052 0.035
0.446 0.364 0.233 0.396 0.277 0.168 1.54 1.15 0.666 0.271 0.189 0.122 0.973 0.691 0.398 0.502 0.394 0.254 0.284 0.202 0.129 0.304 0.214 0.125 0.334 0.258 0.170
0.475 0.321 0.183 0.052 0.038 0.031 0.257 0.197 0.128 0.476 0.354 0.211 0.055 0.044 0.037 0.052 0.032 0.017 0.154 0.134 0.090 0.052 0.031 0.016 0.053 0.034 0.025 0.057 0.040 0.025 0.308 0.223 0.139 0.21 0.120 0.070 0.688 0.445 0.238 0.052 0.036 0.029 0.325 0.238 0.143 0.653 0.421 0.224 0.052 0.032 0.017
0.145 0.083 0.044 0.111 0.080 0.052 0.054 0.037 0.022 0.068 0.048 0.029 0.059 0.041 0.025 0.081 0.054 0.031 0.306 0.186 0.104
Seismic Data Sa(2.0) Sa(5.0)
0.021 0.0053 0.027 0.0071 0.025 0.0064 0.016 0.0040 0.027 0.0071 0.019 0.0047
0.122 0.043 0.087 0.030 0.330 0.119 0.067 0.023 0.193 0.066 0.138 0.052 0.073 0.025 0.061 0.020 0.094 0.033
0.089 0.029 0.020 0.0068 0.068 0.024 0.103 0.035 0.023 0.0077 0.0072 0.0015 0.047 0.016 0.0065 0.0013 0.016 0.0056 0.012 0.0031 0.072 0.025 0.037 0.010 0.105 0.031 0.019 0.0065 0.070 0.023 0.099 0.029 0.0070 0.0015
0.021 0.0049 0.028 0.0071 0.0097 0.0021 0.014 0.0031 0.012 0.0025 0.015 0.0034 0.053 0.015
Sa(10.0) PGA
0.0022 0.041 0.0031 0.052 0.0028 0.044 0.0017 0.037 0.0031 0.051 0.0020 0.039
0.016 0.218 0.012 0.185 0.038 0.693 0.0091 0.126 0.022 0.467 0.019 0.242 0.0096 0.133 0.0077 0.142 0.012 0.154
0.011 0.225 0.0031 0.030 0.0091 0.119 0.013 0.225 0.0035 0.031 0.0008 0.030 0.0062 0.072 0.0007 0.030 0.0025 0.031 0.0014 0.033 0.0094 0.145 0.0041 0.136 0.011 0.340 0.0030 0.030 0.0089 0.153 0.010 0.319 0.0008 0.030
0.0020 0.091 0.0031 0.066 0.0011 0.031 0.0014 0.039 0.0013 0.034 0.0015 0.047 0.0056 0.195
PGV
0.047 0.062 0.054 0.036 0.060 0.042
0.255 0.174 0.816 0.125 0.452 0.294 0.138 0.123 0.184
0.199 0.032 0.127 0.223 0.038 0.021 0.083 0.021 0.028 0.030 0.149 0.104 0.256 0.031 0.145 0.241 0.021
0.062 0.066 0.025 0.035 0.030 0.042 0.162
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division B C-45
            © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Appendix C
Division B
Province and Location
Coppermine (Kugluktuk) Coral Harbour /Salliq Eureka
Iqaluit
Isachsen
Nottingham Island Rankin Inlet (Kangiqiniq) Resolute
Resolution Island
Notes to Table C-3:
Table C-3 (Continued)
Seismic Data
Sa(0.2) Sa(0.5) Sa(1.0) Sa(2.0) Sa(5.0) Sa(10.0) PGA
PGV
0.021 0.048 0.093 0.052 0.158 0.044 0.034 0.084 0.102
0.053 0.031 0.103 0.064 0.173 0.106 0.087 0.065 0.256 0.171 0.109 0.060 0.064 0.045 0.194 0.105 0.203 0.123
0.016 0.0066 0.0013 0.035 0.016 0.0037 0.065 0.035 0.010 0.043 0.023 0.0058 0.102 0.055 0.016 0.031 0.014 0.0030 0.027 0.013 0.0028 0.057 0.028 0.0069 0.069 0.035 0.0092
0.0007 0.031 0.0015 0.062 0.0040 0.110 0.0025 0.051 0.0061 0.162 0.0014 0.068 0.0014 0.036 0.0030 0.124 0.0038 0.128
(1) See the paragraph dealing with Sentence 4.1.8.4.(1) in the Commentary entitled Design for Seismic Effects in the “Structural Commentaries (User's Guide – NBC 2015: Part 4 of Division B)” for guidance regarding sites in the Yukon and the British Columbia panhandle that are close to active faults.
References
(1) Environment Canada, Climate Trends and Variation Bulletin: Annual 2007, 2008.
(2) Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), Climate Change 2007: The Physical Science Basis.
Contribution of Working Group I to the Fourth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. S. Solomon, D. Qin, M. Manning, Z. Chen, M. Marquis, K.B. Averyt, M. Tignor and H.L. Miller (Eds.). Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, United Kingdom and New York, NY, USA,
996 pp., 2007.
(3) American Society of Heating, Refrigerating, and Air-conditioning Engineers, Handbook of Fundamentals, Chapter 14 – Climatic Design Information, Atlanta, GA, 2009.
(4) Lowery, M.D. and Nash, J.E., A comparison of methods of fitting the double exponential distribution. J. of Hydrology, 10 (3), pp. 259–275, 1970.
(5) Newark, M.J., Welsh, L.E., Morris, R.J. and Dnes, W.V. Revised Ground Snow Loads for the 1990 NBC of Canada. Can. J. Civ. Eng., Vol. 16, No. 3, June 1989.
(6) Newark, M.J. A New Look at Ground Snow Loads in Canada. Proceedings, 41st Eastern Snow Conference, Washington, D.C., Vol. 29, pp. 59-63, 1984.
(7) Bruce, J.P. and Clark, R.H. Introduction to Hydrometeorology. Pergammon Press, London, 1966.
(8) Skerlj, P.F. and Surry, D. A Critical Assessment of the DRWPs Used in CAN/CSA-A440-M90. Tenth
International Conference on Wind Engineering, Wind Engineering into the 21st Century, Larsen, Larose
& Livesay (eds), 1999 Balkema, Rotterdam, ISBN 90 5809 059 0.
(9) Cornick, S., Chown, G.A., et al. Committee Paper on Defining Climate Regions as a Basis for Specifying
Requirements for Precipitation Protection for Walls. Institute for Research in Construction, National
Research Council, Ottawa, April 2001.
(10) Boyd, D.W. Variations in Air Density over Canada. National Research Council of Canada, Division of
Building Research, Technical Note No. 486, June 1967.
(11) Adams, J., Halchuk, S., Allen, T.I., and Rogers, G.C. Fifth Generation seismic hazard model and values for
the 2015 National Building Code of Canada. Geological Survey of Canada Open File, 2014.
(12) Atkinson, G. M. and Adams J. Ground motion prediction equations for application to the 2015 Canadian
national seismic hazard maps, Can. J. Civ. Eng. 40, 988–998, 2013.
C-46 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
       © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
Appendix D Fire-Performance Ratings
Section D-1 General
The content of this Appendix was prepared on the recommendations of the Standing Committee on Fire Protection, which was established by the Canadian Commission on Building and Fire Codes (CCBFC) for this purpose.
D-1.1. Introduction D-1.1.1. Scope
1) This fire-performance information is presented in a form closely linked to the performance requirements and the minimum materials specifications of this Code.
2) The ratings have been assigned only after careful consideration of all available literature on assemblies of common building materials, where they are adequately identified by description. The assigned values based on this information will, in most instances, be conservative when compared to the ratings determined on the basis of actual tests on individual assemblies.
3) The fire-performance information set out in this Appendix applies to materials and assemblies of materials that comply in all essential details with the minimum structural design standards described in Part 4. Additional requirements, where appropriate, are described in other Sections of this Appendix.
4) Section D-2 assigns fire-resistance ratings for walls, floors, roofs, columns and beams related to CAN/ULC-S101, “Fire Endurance Tests of Building Construction and Materials,” and describes methods for determining these ratings.
5) Section D-3 assigns flame-spread ratings and smoke developed classifications for surface materials related to CAN/ULC-S102, “Test for Surface Burning Characteristics of Building Materials and Assemblies,” and CAN/ULC-S102.2, “Test for Surface Burning Characteristics of Flooring, Floor Coverings, and Miscellaneous Materials and Assemblies.”
6) Section D-4 describes noncombustibility in building materials when tested in accordance with CAN/ULC-S114, “Test for Determination of Non-Combustibility in Building Materials.”
7) Section D-5 contains requirements for the installation of fire doors and fire dampers in fire-rated stud wall assemblies.
8) Section D-6 contains background information regarding fire test reports, obsolete materials and assemblies, assessment of archaic assemblies and the development of the component additive method.
D-1.1.2. Referenced Documents
1) Where documents are referenced in this Appendix, they shall be the editions designated in
Table D-1.1.2.
This information is included for explanatory purposes only and does not form part of the requirements. The bold face reference numbers that introduce each item do not relate to specific requirements in this Division.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B D-1
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 D-1.1.2.
Division B
Issuing Agency
Document Number(1)
Title of Document(2)
Particleboard
Lightweight Aggregates for Structural Concrete Application and Finishing of Gypsum Board Gypsum Board
Supplement to the National Building Code of Canada 1990
Carpet Underlay, Fiber Type
Carpets for Commercial Use
Hardboard
Trowel or Spray Applied Acoustical Material
Concrete Materials and Methods of Concrete Construction/Test Methods and Standard Practices for Concrete
Design of Concrete Structures
Fired Masonry Brick Made from Clay or Shale Gypsum Plasters
Gypsum Board
Interior Furring, Lathing and Gypsum Plastering
Concrete Block Masonry Units Engineering Design in Wood
Evaluation of Adhesives for Structural Wood Products (Limited Moisture Exposure)
Douglas Fir Plywood Softwood Lumber
Canadian Softwood Plywood
Poplar Plywood
Construction Sheathing
OSB and Waferboard
Design of Steel Structures
Fire Doors and Other Opening Protectives
Fire Endurance Tests of Building Construction and Materials
Test for Surface Burning Characteristics of Building Materials and Assemblies
Test for Surface Burning Characteristics of Flooring, Floor Coverings, and Miscellaneous Materials and Assemblies
Fire Test of Ceiling Firestop Flap Assemblies
Code Reference
D-3.1.1.
D-1.4.3.
D-2.3.9.
D-1.5.1. D-3.1.1.
D-6.2. D-6.3. D-6.4.
D-3.1.1. D-3.1.1. D-3.1.1. D-2.3.4. D-1.4.3.
D-2.1.5. D-2.6.6. D-2.8.2.
D-2.6.1. D-3.1.1.
D-1.5.1. D-3.1.1.
D-1.7.2. D-2.3.9. D-2.5.1.
D-2.1.1. D-2.11.2. D-2.3.6.
D-3.1.1.
D-2.3.6. D-2.4.1.
D-3.1.1.
D-3.1.1.
D-3.1.1.
D-3.1.1.
D-2.6.6.
D-5.2.1.
D-1.1.1. D-1.12.1. D-2.3.2.
D-1.1.1.
D-1.1.1. D-3.1.1.
D-2.3.10. D-2.3.11.
ANSI A208.1-2009
ASTM C 330/C 330M-13 ASTM C 840-13
ASTM C 1396/C 1396M-14
CCBFC NRCC 30629
CGSB 4-GP-36M-1978 CGSB CAN/CGSB-4.129-97 CGSB CAN/CGSB-11.3-M87 CGSB CAN/CGSB-92.2-M90 CSA A23.1-14/A23.2-14
CSA A23.3-14
CSA CAN/CSA-A82-14 CSA A82.22-M1977
CSA CAN/CSA-A82.27-M91
CSA A82.30-M1980
CSA A165.1-14 CSA O86-14 CSA O112.10-08
CSA O121-08 CSA O141-05
CSA O151-09 CSA O153-13 CSA O325-07 CSA O437.0-93 CSA S16-14 NFPA 80-2013
ULC
ULC ULC ULC
CAN/ULC-S101-14
CAN/ULC-S102-10 CAN/ULC-S102.2-10 CAN/ULC-S112.2-07
D-2 Division B Amended Page
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Table D-1.1.2.
Documents Referenced in Appendix D Fire-Performance Ratings
         © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
D-1.2.1.
Issuing Agency
Document Number(1)
Table D-1.1.2. (Continued)
Title of Document(2)
Test for Determination of Non-Combustibility in Building Materials
Mineral Fibre Thermal Insulation for Buildings
Cellulose Fibre Insulation for Buildings Wood Fibre Insulating Boards for Buildings
Code Reference
D-1.1.1. D-4.1.1. D-4.2.1.
D-2.3.4. D-2.3.5. D-2.6.1.
D-2.3.4. D-3.1.1.
ULC CAN/ULC-S114-05
ULC CAN/ULC-S702-14
ULC CAN/ULC-S703-09 ULC CAN/ULC-S706.1-16
Notes to Table D-1.1.2.:
(1) Some documents may have been reaffirmed or reapproved. Check with the applicable issuing agency for up-to-date information.
(2) Some titles have been abridged to omit superfluous wording.
D-1.1.3. Applicability of Ratings
The ratings shown in this document apply if more specific test values are not available. The construction of an assembly that is the subject of an individual test report must be followed in all essential details if the fire-resistance rating reported is to be applied for use with this Code.
D-1.1.4. Higher Ratings
The authority having jurisdiction may allow higher fire-resistance ratings than those derived from this Appendix, where supporting evidence justifies a higher rating. Additional information is provided in summaries of published test information and the reports of fire tests carried out by NRC, which are included in Section D-6, Background Information.
D-1.1.5. Additional Information on Fire Rated Assemblies
Assemblies containing materials for which there is no nationally recognized standard are not included in this Appendix. Many such assemblies have been rated by Underwriters Laboratories (UL), Underwriters’ Laboratories of Canada (ULC), or Intertek Testing Services NA Ltd. (ITS).
D-1.2. Interpretation of Test Results D-1.2.1. Limitations
1) The fire-performance ratings set out in this Appendix are based on those that would be obtained from the standard methods of test described in the Code. The test methods are essentially a means of comparing the performance of one building component or assembly with another in relation to its performance in fire.
2) Since it is not practicable to measure the fire resistance of constructions in situ, they must be evaluated under some agreed test conditions. A specified fire-resistance rating is not necessarily the actual time that the assembly would endure in situ in a building fire, but is that which the particular construction must meet under the specified methods of test.
3) Considerations arising from departures in use from the conditions established in the standard test methods may, in some circumstances, have to be taken into account by the designer and the authority having jurisdiction. Some of these conditions are covered at present by the provisions of the Code.
4) For walls and partitions, the stud spacings previously specified as 16 or 24 inch have been converted to 400 and 600 mm, respectively, for consistency with other metric values; however, the use of equivalent imperial dimensions for stud spacing is permitted.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Amended Page Division B D-3
   © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 D-1.3. Division B
D-1.3. Concrete
D-1.3.1. Aggregates in Concrete
Low density aggregate concretes generally exhibit better fire performance than natural stone aggregate concretes. A series of tests on concrete masonry walls, combined with mathematical analysis of the test results, has allowed further distinctions between certain low density aggregates to be made.
D-1.4. Types of Concrete D-1.4.1. Description
1) For purposes of this Appendix, concretes are described as Types S, N, L, L 1, L2, L40S, L120S or L220S as described in Sentences (2) to (8).
2) Type S concrete is the type in which the coarse aggregate is granite, quartzite, siliceous gravel or other dense materials containing at least 30% quartz, chert or flint.
3) Type N concrete is the type in which the coarse aggregate is cinders, broken brick, blast furnace slag, limestone, calcareous gravel, trap rock, sandstone or similar dense material containing not more than 30% of quartz, chert or flint.
4) Type L concrete is the type in which all the aggregate is expanded slag, expanded clay, expanded shale or pumice.
5) Type L1 concrete is the type in which all the aggregate is expanded shale.
6) Type L2 concrete is the type in which all the aggregate is expanded slag, expanded clay or pumice.
7) Type L40S concrete is the type in which the fine portion of the aggregate is sand and low density
aggregate in which the sand does not exceed 40% of the total volume of all aggregates in the concrete.
8) Type L120S and Type L220S concretes are the types in which the fine portion of the aggregate is sand and low density aggregate in which the sand does not exceed 20% of the total volume of all aggregates in
the concrete.
D-1.4.2. Determination of Ratings
Where concretes are described as being of Type S, N, L, L1 or L2, the rating applies to the concrete containing the aggregate in the group that provides the least fire resistance. If the nature of an aggregate cannot be determined accurately enough to place it in one of the groups, the aggregate shall be considered as being in the group that requires a greater thickness of concrete for the required fire resistance.
D-1.4.3. Description of Aggregates
1) The descriptions of the aggregates in Type S and Type N concretes apply to the coarse aggregates only. Coarse aggregate for this purpose means that retained on a 5 mm sieve using the method of grading aggregates described in CSA A23.1/A23.2, “Concrete Materials and Methods of Concrete Construction/Test Methods and Standard Practices for Concrete.”
2) Increasing the proportion of sand as fine aggregate in low density concretes requires increased thicknesses of material to produce equivalent fire-resistance ratings. Low density aggregates for Type L and Types L-S concretes used in loadbearing components shall conform to ASTM C 330/C 330M, “Lightweight Aggregates for Structural Concrete.”
3) Non-loadbearing low density components of vermiculite and perlite concrete, in the absence of other test evidence, shall be rated on the basis of the values shown for Type L concrete.
D-1.5. Gypsum Board D-1.5.1. Types of Gypsum Board
1) Where the term “gypsum board” is used in this Appendix, it is intended to include—in addition to gypsum board—gypsum backing board and gypsum base for veneer plaster as described in
a) CAN/CSA-A82.27-M, “Gypsum Board,” or
b) ASTM C 1396/C 1396M, “Gypsum Board.”
D-4 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B D-1.7.1.
2) Where the term “Type X gypsum board” is used in this Appendix, it applies to special fire-resistant board as described in
a) CAN/CSA-A82.27-M, “Gypsum Board,” or
b) ASTM C 1396/C 1396M, “Gypsum Board.”
D-1.6. Equivalent Thickness D-1.6.1. Method of Calculating
1) The thickness of solid-unit masonry and concrete described in this Appendix shall be the thickness of solid material in the unit or component thickness. For units that contain cores or voids, the Tables refer to the equivalent thickness determined in conformance with Sentences (2) to (10).
2) Where a plaster finish is used, the equivalent thickness of a wall, floor, column or beam protection shall be equal to the sum of the equivalent thicknesses of the concrete or masonry units and the plaster finish measured at the point that will give the least value of equivalent thickness.
3) Except as provided in Sentence (5), the equivalent thickness of a hollow masonry unit shall be calculated as equal to the actual overall thickness of a unit in millimetres multiplied by a factor equal to the net volume of the unit and divided by its gross volume.
4) Net volume shall be determined using a volume displacement method that is not influenced by the porous nature of the units.
5) Gross volume of a masonry unit shall be equal to the actual length of the unit multiplied by the actual height of the unit multiplied by the actual thickness of the unit.
6) Where all the core spaces in a wall of hollow concrete masonry or hollow-core precast concrete units are filled with grout, mortar, or loose fill materials such as expanded slag, burned clay or shale (rotary kiln process), vermiculite or perlite, the equivalent thickness rating of the wall shall be considered to be the same as that of a wall of solid units, or a solid wall of the same concrete type and the same overall thickness.
7) The equivalent thickness of hollow-core D-1.7.2.
Division B
Type of Surface Protection
Portland cement-sand plaster or lime sand plaster
Gypsum-sand plaster, wood fibred gypsum plaster or gypsum board
Vermiculite or perlite aggregate plaster
Table D-1.7.1.
Multiplying Factors for Masonry or Concrete Construction
Type of Masonry or Concrete
1 0.75 0.75 1.25 1 1
1.75 1.5 1.25
0.50 1
1.25
2) Where a plaster or gypsum board finish is applied to a concrete or masonry wall, the calculated fire-resistance rating of the assembly shall not exceed twice the fire-resistance rating provided by the masonry or concrete because structural collapse may occur before the limiting temperature is reached on the surface of the non-fire-exposed side of the assembly.
3) Where a plaster or gypsum board finish is applied only on the non-fire-exposed side of a hollow clay tile wall, no increase in fire resistance is permitted because structural collapse may occur before the limiting temperature is reached on the surface of the non-fire-exposed side of the assembly.
4) The contribution to fire resistance of a plaster or gypsum board finish applied to the non-fire-exposed side of a monolithic concrete or unit masonry wall shall be determined in conformance with Sentence (1), but shall not exceed 0.5 times the contribution of the concrete or masonry wall.
5) When applied to the fire-exposed side, the contribution of a gypsum lath and plaster or gypsum board finish to the fire resistance of masonry or concrete wall, floor or roof assemblies shall be determined from Table D-2.3.4.-A or D-2.3.4.-D.
D-1.7.2. Plaster
1) Gypsum plastering shall conform to CSA A82.30-M, “Interior Furring, Lathing and Gypsum
Plastering.”
2) Portland cement-sand plaster shall be applied in 2 coats: the first coat containing 1 part Portland cement to 2 parts sand by volume, and the second coat containing 1 part Portland cement to 3 parts sand by volume.
3) Plaster finish shall be securely bonded to the wall or ceiling.
4) The thickness of plaster finish applied directly to monolithic concrete without metal lath shall
not exceed 10 mm on ceilings and 16 mm on walls.
5) Where the thickness of plaster finish on masonry or concrete exceeds 38 mm, wire mesh with 1.57 mm diam wire and openings not exceeding 50 mm by 50 mm shall be embedded midway in the plaster.
D-1.7.3. Attachment of Gypsum Board and Lath
Gypsum board and gypsum lath finishes applied to masonry or concrete walls shall be secured to wood or steel furring members in conformance with Article D-2.3.9.
D-1.7.4. Sample Calculations
The following examples are included as a guide to the method of calculating the fire resistance of concrete or hollow masonry walls with plaster or gypsum board protection:
Example (1)
A 3 h fire-resistance rating is required for a monolithic concrete wall of Type S aggregate with a 20 mm gypsum-sand plaster finish on metal lath on each face.
D-6 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
  Solid Clay Brick, Unit Masonry and Monolithic Concrete, Type N or S
Cored Clay Brick, Clay Tile, Monolithic Concrete, Type L40S and Unit Masonry, Type L120SConcrete Unit Masonry, Type L1 or L220S and Monolithic Concrete, Type LConcrete Unit Masonry, Type L2 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022
 Division B D-1.8.1.
(a) The minimum equivalent thickness of Type S monolithic concrete needed to give a 3 h fire-resistance rating = 158 mm (Table D-2.1.1.).
(b) Since the gypsum-sand plaster finish is applied on metal lath, Sentence D-1.7.1.(5) does not apply. Therefore, the contribution to the equivalent thickness of the wall of 20 mm gypsum-sand plaster on each face of the concrete is 20 × 1.25 = 25 mm (see Sentences D-1.7.1.(1) to (4)).
(c) The total contribution of the plaster finishes is 2 × 25 = 50 mm.
(d) Theminimumequivalentthicknessofconcreterequiredis158mm-50mm=108mm.
(e) FromTableD-2.1.1.,the108mmequivalentthicknessofmonolithicconcretegivesacontributionofless than 1.5 h. This is less than half the rating of the assembly so that the conditions in Sentence D-1.7.1.(2) are not met. Thus the equivalent thickness of monolithic concrete must be increased to 112 mm to give 1.5 h contribution.
(f) Thetotalequivalentthicknessoftheplasterfinishescanthenbereducedto158mm-112mm=46mm.
(g) The total actual thickness of the plaster finishes required is therefore 46 mm ÷ 1.25 = 37 mm
(Sentences D-1.7.1.(1) to (4)) or 18.5 mm on each face.
(h) Since the thickness of the plaster finish on each face exceeds 16 mm, metal lath is still required
(Sentence D-1.7.2.(4)).
(i) Sincethiswallissymmetricalwithplasteronbothfaces,thecontributiontofireresistanceoftheplaster
finish on either face is limited to one-quarter of the wall rating by virtue of Sentence D-1.7.1.(2). Under these circumstances, the conditions in Sentence D-1.7.1.(4) are automatically met.
Example (2)
A 2 h fire-resistance rating is required for a hollow masonry wall of Type N concrete with a 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board finish on each face.
(a) Since gypsum board is used, Sentence D-1.7.1.(5) applies. The 12.7 mm gypsum board finish on the fire-exposed side is, therefore, assigned 25 min by using Table D-2.3.4.-A.
(b) Thefireresistancerequiredofthebalanceoftheassemblyis120min-25min=95min.
(c) Interpolatingbetween1.5hand2hinTableD-2.1.1.for95minfireresistance,theequivalentthicknessfor
hollow masonry units required is 95 mm + ( 18 mm × 5/30) = 95 mm + 3 mm = 98 mm.
(d) The contribution to the equivalent thickness of the wall of the 12.7 mm gypsum board finish on the
non-fire-exposed side using Table D-1.7.1. = 12.7 × 1.25 = 16 mm.
(e) Equivalentthicknessrequiredofconcretemasonryunit=98-16=82mm.
(f) Thefire-resistanceratingofaconcretemasonrywallhavinganequivalentthicknessof82mm=1hfor
73 mm + (9 mm × 30/22) = 1 h 12 min.
As this is more than 1 h, the conditions of Sentence D-1.7.1.(2) are met and the rating of 2 h is justified. Example (3)
A 2 h fire-resistance rating is required for a hollow masonry exterior wall of Type L220S concrete with a 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board finish on the non-fire-exposed side only.
(a) According to Table D-2.1.1., the minimum equivalent thickness for Type L220S concrete masonry units needed to achieve a 2 h rating is 94 mm.
(b) Since gypsum board is not used on the fire-exposed side, Sentence D-1.7.1.(5) does not apply. The contribution to the equivalent thickness of the wall by the 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board finish applied on the non-fire-exposed side is 15.9 × 1 ≈ 16 mm (see Sentence D-1.7.1.(1) and Table D-1.7.1.).
(c) Therefore,theequivalentthicknessrequiredoftheconcretemasonryunitis94-16=78mm.
(d) The contribution to fire resistance of a 78 mm L 220S concrete hollow masonry unit is 85 min. The
contribution of the Type X gypsum board finish is 120 - 85 = 35 min, which does not exceed half the 85 min
contribution of the masonry unit or 42.5 min, so that the conditions in Sentence D-1.7.1.(4) are met.
(e) Theratingofthewall(120min)islessthantwicethecontributionofthemasonryunit(170min)sothat
the conditions in Sentence D-1.7.1.(2) are also met.
D-1.8. Tests on Floors and Roofs D-1.8.1. Exposure to Fire
All tests relate to the performance of a floor assembly or floor-ceiling or roof-ceiling assembly above a fire. It has been assumed on the basis of experience that fire on top will take a longer time to penetrate the floor than one below, and that the fire resistance in such a situation will be at least equal to that obtained from below in the standard test.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B D-7
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 D-1.9. Division B
D-1.9. Moisture Content D-1.9.1. Effect of Moisture
1) The moisture content of building materials at the time of fire test may have a significant influence on the measured fire resistance. In general, an increase in the moisture content should result in an increase in the fire resistance, though in some materials the presence of moisture may produce disruptive effects and early collapse of the assembly.
2) Moisture content is now controlled in standard fire test methods and is generally recorded in the test reports. In earlier tests, moisture content was not always properly determined.
D-1.10. Permanence and Durability
D-1.10.1. Test Conditions
The ratings in this Appendix relate to tested assemblies and do not take into account possible changes or deterioration in use of the materials. The standard fire test measures the fire resistance of a sample building assembly erected for the test. No judgment as to the permanence or durability of the assembly is made in the test.
D-1.11. Steel Structural Members
D-1.11.1. Thermal Protection
Since the ability of a steel structural member to sustain the loading for which it was designed may be impaired because of elevated temperatures, measures shall be taken to provide thermal protection. The fire-resistance ratings, as established by the provisions of this Appendix, indicate the time periods during which the effects of heat on protected steel structural members are considered to be within acceptable limits.
D-1.12. Restraint Effects
D-1.12.1. Effect on Fire-Resistance Ratings
In fire tests of floors, roofs and beams, it is necessary to state whether the rating applies to a thermally restrained or thermally unrestrained assembly. Edge restraint of a floor or roof, structural continuity, or end restraint of a beam can significantly extend the time before collapse in a standard test. A restrained condition is one in which expansion or rotation at the supports of a load-carrying element resulting from the effects of fire is resisted by forces or moments external to the element. An unrestrained condition is one in which the load-carrying element is free to thermally expand and rotate at its supports.
Whether an assembly or structural member can be considered thermally restrained or thermally unrestrained depends on the type of construction and location in a building. Guidance on this subject can be found in Appendix A of CAN/ULC-S101, “Fire Endurance Tests of Building Construction and Materials.” Different acceptance criteria also apply to thermally unrestrained and thermally restrained assemblies. These are described in CAN/ULC-S101.
The ratings for floors, roofs, and beams in this Appendix meet the conditions of CAN/ULC-S101, “Fire Endurance Tests of Building Construction and Materials,” for thermally unrestrained specimens. In a thermally restrained condition, the structural element or assembly would probably have greater fire resistance, but the extent of this increase can be determined only by reference to behavior in a standard test.
Section D-2 Fire-Resistance Ratings D-2.1. Masonry and Concrete Walls
D-2.1.1. Minimum Equivalent Thickness for Fire-Resistance Rating
The minimum thicknesses of unit masonry and monolithic concrete walls are shown in Table D-2.1.1. Hollow masonry units and hollow-core concrete panels shall be rated on the basis of equivalent thickness as described in Subsection D-1.6.
D-8 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
D-2.1.4.
Table D-2.1.1.
Minimum Equivalent Thicknesses(1) of Unit Masonry and Monolithic Concrete Walls Loadbearing and Non-Loadbearing, mm
Type of Wall
Solid brick units (80% solid and over), actual overall thickness
Cored brick units and hollow tile units (less than 80% solid), equivalent thickness
Solid and hollow concrete masonry units, equivalent thickness Type S or N concrete(2)
Type L120S concrete
Type L1 concrete
Type L220S concrete
Type L2 concrete
Monolithic concrete and concrete panels, equivalent thickness
Type S concrete
Type N concrete
Type L40S or Type L concrete
Notes to Table D-2.1.1.:
Fire-Resistance Rating
30 min
63 50
44 42 42 42 42
60 59 49
45 min
76 60
59 54 54 54 54
77 74 62
1 h
90 72
73 66 64 64 63
90 87 72
1.5 h
108 86
95 87 82 81 79
112 108 89
2 h
128 102
113
102
 97
 94
 91
130 124 103
3h 4h
152 178 122 142
142 167 129 152 122 143 116 134 111 127
158 180 150 171 124 140
(1) See definition of equivalent thickness in Subsection D-1.6.
(2) Hollow concrete masonry units made with Type S or N concrete shall have a minimum compressive strength of 15 MPa based on net area, as
defined in CSA A165.1, “Concrete Block Masonry Units.”
D-2.1.2. Applicability of Ratings
1) Ratings obtained as described in Article D-2.1.1. apply to either loadbearing or non-loadbearing
walls, except for walls described in Sentences (2) to (6).
2) Ratings for walls with a thickness less than the minimum thickness prescribed for loadbearing walls in this Code apply to non-loadbearing walls only.
3) Masonry cavity walls (consisting of 2 wythes of masonry with an air space between) that are loaded to a maximum allowable compressive stress of 380 kPa have a fire resistance at least as great as that of a solid wall of a thickness equal to the sum of the equivalent thicknesses of the 2 wythes.
4) Masonry cavity walls that are loaded to a compressive stress exceeding 380 kPa are not considered to be within the scope of this Appendix.
5) A masonry wall consisting of 2 types of masonry units, either bonded together or in the form of a cavity wall, shall be considered to have a fire-resistance rating equal to that which would apply if the whole of the wall were of the material that gives the lesser rating.
6) A non-loadbearing cavity wall made up of 2 precast concrete panels with an air space or insulation in the cavity between them shall be considered to have a fire-resistance rating as great as that of a solid wall of a thickness equal to the sum of the thicknesses of the 2 panels.
D-2.1.3. Framed Beams and Joists
Beams and joists that are framed into a masonry or concrete fire separation shall not reduce the thickness of the fire separation to less than the equivalent thickness required for the fire separation.
D-2.1.4. Credit for Plaster Thickness
On monolithic walls and walls of unit masonry, the full plaster finish on one or both faces multiplied by the factor shown in Table D-1.7.1. shall be included in the wall thickness shown in Table D-2.1.1., under the conditions and using the methods described in Subsection D-1.7.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B D-9
       © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 D-2.1.5. Division B
D-2.1.5. Walls Exposed to Fire on Both Sides
1) Except as permitted in Sentence (2), portions of loadbearing reinforced concrete walls, which
do not form a complete fire separation and thus may be exposed to fire on both sides simultaneously, shall have minimum dimensions and minimum cover to steel reinforcement in conformance with Articles D-2.8.2. to D-2.8.5.
2) A concrete wall exposed to fire from both sides as described in Sentence (1) has a fire-resistance rating of 2 h if the following conditions are met:
a) its equivalent thickness is not less than 200 mm,
b) its aspect ratio (width/thickness) is not less than 4.0,
c) the minimum thickness of concrete cover over the steel reinforcement specified in Clause (d) is not less than 50 mm,
d) each face of the wall is reinforced with both vertical and horizontal steel reinforcement in conformance with either Clause 10 or Clause 14 of CSA A23.3, “Design of Concrete Structures,”
e) the structural design of the wall is governed by the minimum eccentricity (15 + 0.03h) specified in Clause 10.15.3.1 of CSA A23.3, “Design of Concrete Structures,” and
f) the effective length of the wall, klu, is not more than 3.7 m
where
k =effectivelengthfactorobtainedfromCSAA23.3,“DesignofConcreteStructures,”
lu = unsupported length of the wall in metres.
D-2.2. Reinforced and Prestressed Concrete Floor and Roof Slabs D-2.2.1. Assignment of Rating
1) Floors and roofs in a fire test are assigned a fire-resistance rating which relates to the time that an average temperature rise of 140°C or a maximum temperature rise of 180 °C at any location is recorded on the unexposed side, or the time required for collapse to occur, whichever is the lesser. The thickness of concrete shown in Table D-2.2.1.-A shall be required to resist the transfer of heat during the fire resistance period shown.
Type of Concrete
Type S concrete
Type N concrete
Type L40S or Type L concrete
Fire-Resistance Rating
Table D-2.2.1.-A
Minimum Thickness of Reinforced and Prestressed Concrete Floor or Roof Slabs, mm
30 min
60 59 49
45 min
77 74 62
1 h
90 87 72
1.5 h
112 108 89
2 h
130 124 103
3 h
158 150 124
4 h
180 171 140
2) The concrete cover over the reinforcement and steel tendons shown in Table D-2.2.1.-B shall be required to maintain the integrity of the structure and prevent collapse during the same period.
Type of Concrete
Type S, N, L40S or L concrete
Prestressed concrete slabs Type S, N, L40S or L concrete
D-2.2.2. Floors with Hollow Units
Fire-Resistance Rating
Table D-2.2.1.-B
Minimum Concrete Cover over Reinforcement in Concrete Slabs, mm
30 min
20 20
45 min
20 25
1 h
20 25
1.5 h
20 32
2 h
25 39
3 h
32 50
4 h
39 64
The fire resistance of floors containing hollow units may be determined on the basis of equivalent thickness as described in Subsection D-1.6.
D-10 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
        © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B D-2.2.3.
D-2.2.3. Composite Slabs
1) For composite concrete floor and roof slabs consisting of one layer of Type S or N concrete and another layer of Type L40S or L concrete in which the minimum thickness of both the top and bottom layers is not less than 25 mm, the combined fire-resistance rating may be determined using the following expressions:
a) when the base layer consists of Type S or N concrete,
b) when the base layer consists of Type L40S or L concrete,
where
R = fire resistance of slab, h,
t = total thickness of slab, mm, and d = thickness of base layer, mm.
2) If the base course described in Sentence (1) is covered by a top layer of material other than Type S, N, L40S or L concrete, the top course thickness may be converted to an equivalent concrete thickness by multiplying the actual thickness by the appropriate factor listed in Table D-2.2.3.-A This equivalent concrete thickness may be added to the thickness of the base course and the fire-resistance rating calculated using Table D-2.2.1.-A.
3) The minimum concrete cover under the main reinforcement for composite concrete floor and roof slabs with base slabs less than 100 mm thick shall conform to Table D-2.2.3.-B For base slabs 100 mm or more thick, the minimum cover thickness requirements of Table D-2.2.1.-B shall apply.
4) Where the top layer of a 2-layer slab is less than 25 mm thick, the fire-resistance rating for the slab shall be calculated as though the entire slab were made up of the type of concrete with the lesser fire resistance.
Top Course Material
Gypsum board
Cellular concrete (mass density 400 – 560 kg/m3 )
Vermiculite and perlite concrete (mass density 560 kg/m3 or less) Portland cement with sand aggregate
Terrazzo
Base Slab Normal Density Concrete (Type S or N)
3
2 1.75 1 1
Base Slab Low Density Concrete (Type L40S or L)
Table D-2.2.3.-A
Multiplying Factors for Equivalent Thickness
Table D-2.2.3.-B
Minimum Concrete Cover under Bottom Reinforcement in Composite Concrete Slabs, mm
2.25 1.50 1.50 0.75 0.75
3 h
40
Base Slab Concrete Type
Reinforced concrete Type S, N, L40S or L
Prestressed concrete TypeS
TypeN
Type L40S or L
30 min
15
45 min
15
Fire-Resistance Rating 1 h 1.5 h 2 h
20 25 30
4 h
55
20 25 30 40 50 65 75 20 20 25 35 45 60 70 20 20 25 30 40 50 60
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B D-11
       © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 D-2.2.4. Division B
D-2.2.4. Contribution of Plaster Finish
1) The contribution of plaster finish securely fastened to the underside of concrete may be taken into
account in floor or roof slabs under the conditions and using the methods described in Subsection D-1.7.
2) Plaster finish on the underside of concrete floors or roofs may be used in lieu of concrete cover referred to in Sentence D-2.2.1.(2) under the conditions and using the methods described in Subsection D-1.7.
D-2.2.5. Concrete Cover
1) In prestressed concrete slab construction, the concrete cover over an individual tendon shall be the minimum thickness of concrete between the surface of the tendon and the fire-exposed surface of the slab, except that for ungrouted ducts the assumed cover thickness shall be the minimum thickness of concrete between the surface of the duct and the bottom of the slab. For slabs in which several tendons are used, the cover is assumed to be the average of those of individual tendons, except that the cover for any individual tendon shall be not less than half of the value given in Table D-2.2.1.-B nor less than 20 mm.
2) Except as provided in Sentence (3), in post-tensioned prestressed concrete slabs, the concrete cover to the tendon at the anchor shall be not less than 15 mm greater than the minimum cover required by Sentence (1). The minimum concrete cover to the anchorage bearing plate and to the end of the tendon, if it projects beyond the bearing plate, shall be 20 mm.
3) The requirements of Sentence (2) do not apply to those portions of slabs not likely to be exposed to fire, such as the ends and tops.
D-2.2.6. Minimum Dimensions for Cover
Minimum dimensions and cover to steel tendons of prestressed concrete beams shall conform to Subsection D-2.10.
D-2.3. Wood and Steel Framed Walls, Floors and Roofs D-2.3.1. Maximum Fire-Resistance Rating
The fire-resistance rating of walls constructed of wood studs or cold-formed-steel studs, of floors constructed of wood joists, wood I-joists, pre-manufactured wood trusses, cold-formed steel joists or open web steel joists, and of roofs constructed of wood joists, pre-manufactured metal-plate-connected wood trusses or open web steel joists can be determined for ratings of not more than 90 min from the information in this Subsection.
D-2.3.2. Loadbearing Conditions
1) The fire-resistance ratings derived from the information in this Subsection apply to loadbearing and non-loadbearing wood-framed and cold-formed-steel-framed walls, and to loadbearing floors and roofs, as specifically described in this Subsection.
2) Loadbearing conditions shall be as defined in CAN/ULC-S101, “Fire Endurance Tests of Building Construction and Materials.”
D-2.3.3. Limitations of Component Additive Method
(See Section D-6, Background Information.)
1) The fire-resistance rating of a framed assembly depends primarily on the time during which the membrane on the fire-exposed side remains in place.
2) The assigned times in Sentences D-2.3.4.(2), (3) and (4) are not intended to be construed as the fire-resistance ratings of the individual components of an assembly, nor are they intended to be construed as times that are applicable or acceptable for use beyond the method and systems described in this Subsection. These assigned times are the individual contributions of each component to the overall fire-resistance rating of an assembly, which is permitted to be derived using the component additive method described in this Subsection.
3) The fire-resistance rating calculated by the component additive method cannot be increased by installing membranes in multiple layers, other than as specified in Tables D-2.3.4.-A, D-2.3.4.-B, and D-2.3.4.-C.
D-12 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
  © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B D-2.3.4.
D-2.3.4. Method of Calculation
1) In the component additive method, the fire-resistance rating of a framed assembly is calculated by adding the time assigned in Sentence (2) for the membrane on the fire-exposed side to the time assigned
in Sentence (3) for the framing members and then adding any time assigned in Sentence (4) for additional protective measures, such as the inclusion of insulation or of reinforcement for a membrane. For loadbearing walls where resilient metal channels are installed with a single layer of gypsum board membrane in accordance with Table D-2.3.4.-A, the fire-resistance rating determined using this method of calculation must be reduced by 10 min.
2) The times to be used in the component additive method that have been assigned to membranes on the fire-exposed side of the assembly, which are partly based on their ability to remain in place during fire tests, are listed in Tables D-2.3.4.-A, D-2.3.4.-B, D-2.3.4.-C and D-2.3.4.-D. (This is not to be confused with the fire-resistance rating of the membrane, which also takes into account the rise in temperature on the unexposed side of the membrane. [See Sentence D-2.3.3.(2).])
Table D-2.3.4.-A
Time Assigned to Protective Membranes on Fire-Exposed Side of Wood-Framed and Cold-Formed-Steel-Framed Walls
Description of Finish
11.0 mm Douglas Fir plywood phenolic bonded 14.0 mm Douglas Fir plywood phenolic bonded 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
Double 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board(4)
Notes to Table D-2.3.4.-A:
Time, min
Loadbearing Walls
–
– 25(2) 40(2)
50
Non-Loadbearing Walls
10(1) 15(1)
25 40(3)
80
(1) Applies to stud cavities filled with mineral wool conforming to CAN/ULC-S702, “Mineral Fibre Thermal Insulation for Buildings,” and having a mass per unit area of not less than 2 kg/m2, with no additional credit for insulation according to Table D-2.3.4.-G.
(2) Applies only to wood-framed walls.
(3) Applies only to steel-framed walls.
(4) Resilient metal channels are permitted to be installed at a spacing of 400 mm o.c. with no effect on the rating of the wall assembly.
Table D-2.3.4.-B
Time Assigned to Gypsum Board Membranes on Fire-Exposed Side of Floors
Description of Finish
12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
15.9 mm Type X gypsum board Double 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board Double 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board Double 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
Notes to Table D-2.3.4.-B:
Resilient Metal Channels(1)
Spaced ≤ 400 mm o.c.(2)
—
Spaced ≤ 400 mm o.c.(5) Spaced at 600 mm o.c.(6) Spaced ≤ 600 mm o.c.(6)
Time, min
(1) See Figures A-9.10.3.1.-A, A-9.10.3.1.-B and A-9.10.3.1.-D in Note A-9.10.3.1. for the attachment of single and double layers of gypsum board to resilient metal channels.
(2) Resilient metal channels must be installed to achieve the stated rating.
(3) Applies to wood joists, wood trusses, wood I-joists and cold-formed steel joists (C-shaped joists).
(4) Applies to wood joists and pre-fabricated metal-plate-connected wood trusses.
(5) Resilient metal channels must be installed or gypsum board must be applied directly to the structural members, which must be spaced not
more than 400 mm o.c.
(6) Resilient metal channels are permitted to be installed with no effect on the rating of the floor assembly. Gypsum board is also permitted to be
directly applied to the structural members.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B D-13
Floors with Wood or Steel Joists
25(3)
40 25(4) 40(4) 50(3) 45(3) 60(3)
Floors with Open-Web Steel Joists
— — 25 40 — — —
                   © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 D-2.3.4.
Division B
Description of Finish
12.7 mm Type X gypsum board 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
Notes to Table D-2.3.4.-C:
Time, min(1)
25 40
Type of Lath
9.5 mm gypsum
Metal
Notes to Table D-2.3.4.-D:
13 — 16 — 19 — 19 20 23 25 26 30
Description of Frame
Wood studs spaced ≤ 400 mm o.c.
Wood studs spaced ≤ 600 mm o.c. Cold-formed-steel studs spaced ≤ 400 mm o.c. Cold-formed-steel studs spaced ≤ 600 mm o.c.
Loadbearing Walls
10
Time, min
20 15 10
Non-Loadbearing Walls
–
Type of Assembly
Floor(1)
Roof
Table D-2.3.4.-F
Time Assigned for Contribution of Wood or Steel Frame of Floors and Roofs
Description of Frame
Structural Members
Wood joists, wood I-joists, wood trusses and cold-formed-steel joists spaced ≤ 600 mm o.c. Open-web steel joists with ceiling supports spaced ≤ 400 mm o.c.
Wood joists spaced ≤ 400 mm o.c.
Open-web steel joists with ceiling supports spaced ≤ 400 mm o.c.
Wood truss assemblies [metal-plate-connected] spaced ≤ 600 mm o.c.
Time, min
10(2)
10 10 5
D-14 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Table D-2.3.4.-C
Time Assigned to Gypsum Board Membranes on Fire-Exposed Side of Roofs
(1) Applies to wood joists, pre-fabricated metal-plate-connected wood trusses, and open-web steel joists with ceiling supports spaced ≤ 400 mm o.c.
Table D-2.3.4.-D
Time Assigned for Contribution of Lath and Plaster Protection on Fire-Exposed Side
Plaster Thickness, mm
Portland Cement and Sand(1) or Lime and Sand
Type of Plaster Finish
Gypsum and Sand or Gypsum Wood Fibre
Time, min(2)
           35
           40
           50
           50
           65
           80
Gypsum and Perlite or Gypsum and Vermiculite
55
65 80(3)
80(3) 80(3) 80(3)
(1) For mixture of Portland cement-sand plaster, see Sentence D-1.7.2.(2).
(2) Applies to loadbearing and non-loadbearing wood studs or non-loadbearing cold-formed-steel studs, to floors constructed of wood joists or
open-web steel joists, and to roofs constructed of wood joists, pre-manufactured metal-plate-connected wood trusses, or open-web steel joists.
(3) Values shown for these membranes have been limited to 80 min because the fire-resistance ratings of framed assemblies derived from these
Tables must not exceed 1.5 h.
3) The times to be used in the component additive method that have been assigned to wall framing members and to floor and roof framing members are listed in Tables D-2.3.4.-E and D-2.3.4.-F respectively.
Table D-2.3.4.-E
Time Assigned for Contribution of Wood-Framed or Cold-Formed-Steel-Framed Walls
                         © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
D-2.3.4.
Notes to Table D-2.3.4.-F:
Table D-2.3.4.-F (Continued)
(1) Resilient metal channels are permitted to be installed with no effect on the rating of the floor assembly.
(2) Applies only to floor structural members that are protected by a membrane.
4) Preformed insulation of glass, rock or slag fibre and cellulose fibre insulation provide additional protection to wood studs by shielding the studs from exposure to the fire and thus delaying the time of collapse. The use of preformed glass fibre, preformed rock or slag fibre and dry-blown cellulose insulation material does not decrease the rating of wall assemblies with the membranes identified in Table D-2.3.4.-A. Similarly, the
use of preformed glass fibre, preformed rock or slag fibre and cellulose insulation material does not decrease the rating of floor assemblies constructed with wood joists, wood trusses, wood I-joists and cold-formed-steel floor joists (C-shaped joists), provided the insulation is not in direct contact with the membranes identified
in Table D-2.3.4.-B. The use of reinforcement in the membrane exposed to fire also adds to the fire resistance by extending the time to failure. Table D-2.3.4.-G shows the time increments that may be added to the fire resistance if these features are incorporated in the assembly.
Table D-2.3.4.-G
Time Assigned for Additional Protection
Description of Additional Protection
Add to the fire-resistance rating of wood stud walls, sheathed with gypsum board or lath and plaster, if the spaces between the studs are filled with preformed insulation of rock or slag fibres conforming to CAN/ULC-S702, “Mineral Fibre Thermal Insulation for Buildings,” and with a mass per unit area of not less than 1.22 kg/m2 of wall surface
Add to the fire-resistance rating of non-loadbearing wood stud walls, sheathed with gypsum board or lath and plaster, if the spaces between the studs are filled with preformed insulation of glass fibres conforming to CAN/ULC-S702, “Mineral Fibre Thermal Insulation for Buildings,” and having a mass per unit area of not less than 0.6 kg/m 2 of wall surface
Add to the fire-resistance rating of loadbearing wood stud walls sheathed with gypsum board if the spaces between the studs are filled with insulation of cellulose fibres conforming to CAN/ULC-S703, “Cellulose Fibre Insulation for Buildings,” and having a density of not less than 50 kg/m3
Add to the fire-resistance rating of plaster on gypsum lath ceilings if 0.76 mm diam wire mesh with 25 mm by 25 mm openings or 1.57 mm diam diagonal wire reinforcing at 250 mm o.c. is placed between lath and plaster
Add to the fire-resistance rating of plaster on gypsum lath ceilings if 76 mm wide metal lath strips are placed over joints between lath and plaster
Add to the fire-resistance rating of plaster on 9.5 mm thick gypsum lath ceilings (Table D-2.3.4.-D) if supports for lath are 300 mm o.c.
Add to the fire-resistance rating of floor assemblies if the spaces between the structural members are filled with preformed insulation of rock or slag fibres conforming to CAN/ULC-S702, “Mineral Fibre Thermal Insulation for Buildings,” and having a mass per unit area of not less than 1.22 kg/m2 of floor surface
Add to the fire-resistance rating of floor assemblies if the spaces between the structural members are filled with wet-blown cellulose fibres conforming to CAN/ULC-S703, “Cellulose Fibre Insulation for Buildings,” and having a density of not less than 50 kg/m3
Add to the fire-resistance rating of floor assemblies where the floor topping on the unexposed side of the floor assemblies consists of concrete not less than 38 mm thick
Notes to Table D-2.3.4.-G:
(1) Applies to wood-framed walls only.
(2) Applies to wood joists, wood trusses, wood I-joists and cold-formed-steel joists (C-shaped joists).
(3) Applies to cellulose fibre:
Time, min
15(1) 5(2)
10
30
10 10
5(2)
5(2)(3) 5(2)
(i) (ii)
forwoodjoists,woodI-joistandwoodtrusses–thatisspray-appliedwithaminimumdensityof50kg/m3,aminimumdepthof90mmonthe underside of the subfloor, and of 90 mm on the sides of the structural members; forcold-formed-steeljoists–thatisspray-appliedwithaminimumdensityof50kg/m3andaminimumthicknessof90mmontheunderside of the subfloor, of 90 mm on the sides of the structural members, and of 13 mm on the underside of the bottom flange other than at resilient metal channel locations.
Cellulose fibre insulation conforming to CAN/ULC-S703, “Cellulose Fibre Insulation for Buildings,” applied in conformance with CAN/CGSB-92.2-M, “Trowel or Spray Applied Acoustical Material,” does not affect the fire-resistance rating of a non-loadbearing cold-formed-steel stud wall assembly, provided that it is sprayed to either face of the wall cavity.
5)
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B D-15
             © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 D-2.3.5. Division B
D-2.3.5. Considerations for Various Types of Assemblies
1) Interior vertical fire separations are to be rated for exposure to fire on each side (see
Sentence 3.1.7.3.(2)). The method described in this Subsection applies when a membrane is provided on both sides of the assembly. However, in the calculation of the fire-resistance rating of such an assembly using this method, no additional contribution to fire resistance is to be assigned for a membrane on the non-fire-exposed side, since its contribution is already accounted for in the values assigned to the other components of the assembly.
2) Exterior wall assemblies required to have a fire-resistance rating are required to be rated for exposure to fire from the interior side only (see Sentence 3.1.7.3.(3)). When deriving a fire-resistance rating for such wall assemblies using the method described in this Subsection, only wood studs with a single layer of gypsum board or non-loadbearing cold-formed-steel studs conforming to Table D-2.3.4.-E may be used. Such walls must have a membrane on the exterior side of the stud consisting of plywood, oriented strandboard or gypsum sheathing, and exterior cladding. Additional materials are also permitted between the required sheathing and cladding. The spaces between the studs are to be filled with insulation conforming to CAN/ULC-S702, “Mineral Fibre Thermal Insulation for Buildings,” and having a mass per unit area of not less than 1.22 kg/m2 of wall surface. However, in the calculation of the fire-resistance rating of such an assembly, no additional contribution to fire resistance is to be assigned for a membrane on the non-fire-exposed side, since its contribution is already accounted for in the values assigned to the other components of the assembly.
3) In the case of a floor or roof assembly, the Code only requires testing for fire exposure from below. Floors or roofs must have an upper flooring or roofing membrane in accordance with Table D-2.3.5.
Type of Assembly
Floor
Structural Members
Table D-2.3.5.
Flooring or Roofing Membranes
Subfloor or Roof Deck
Finished Flooring or Roofing
Notes to Table D-2.3.5.:
Wood joists, wood I-joists, wood trusses and cold-formed-steel joists
minimum 15.5 mm T & G plywood or minimum 15.5 mm oriented strandboard
No requirement
(1) Applies to single layer of gypsum board membrane, and lath and plaster.
4) Insulation used in the cavities of a wood joist or metal-plate-connected wood truss floor assembly with a single layer of gypsum board will not reduce the assigned fire-resistance rating of the assembly, provided:
D-16 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
       Wood or open-web steel joists(1) and metal-plate-connected wood trusses(1)
 12.5 mm plywood or
15.5 mm oriented strandboard or
17 mm T & G softwood or
14 mm phenolic-bonded Douglas Fir
plywood (no finished flooring required)
 Hardwood or softwood flooring on building paper
Resilient flooring, parquet floor, felted synthetic fibre floor coverings, carpeting, or ceramic tile on 8 mm thick panel-type underlay
Ceramic tile on 30 mm mortar bed
  Open-web steel joists(1)
 50 mm reinforced concrete or
50 mm concrete on metal lath or formed
steel sheet or
40 mm reinforced gypsum-fibre
concrete on 12.7 mm gypsum board
 Finish flooring
    Roof
   Wood or open-web steel joists(1) and wood trusses(1)
 12.5 mm plywood or
15.5 mm oriented strandboard or
17 mm T & G softwood or
14 mm phenolic-bonded Douglas Fir
plywood (no finished flooring required)
 Finish roofing material with or without insulation
  Open-web steel joists(1)
 50 mm reinforced concrete or
50 mm concrete on metal lath or formed
steel sheet or
40 mm reinforced gypsum-fibre
concrete on 12.7 mm gypsum board
 Finish roofing material with or without insulation
   © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B D-2.3.6.
a) the insulation is preformed of rock, slag or glass fibre conforming to CAN/ULC-S702, “Mineral Fibre Thermal Insulation for Buildings,” and having a mass per unit area of not more than 1.1 kg/m2 and is installed adjacent to the bottom edge of the framing member, directly above steel furring channels,
b) the gypsum board ceiling membrane is attached to
i) woodtrussesinconformancewithSentenceD-2.3.9.(2)bywayofsteelfurringchannels
spaced not more than 400 mm o.c., and the channels are secured to each bottom truss
member with a double strand of 1.2 mm galvanized steel wire, or
ii) wood joists by way of resilient metal or steel furring channels spaced not more than
400 mm o.c. in conformance with Sentences D-2.3.9.(2) and (3), and
c) a steel furring channel is installed midway between each furring channel mentioned in Clause (b) to
provide additional support for the insulation.
5) Except as required in Sentence D-2.3.5.(4), resilient metal or steel furring channels may be used to attach a gypsum board ceiling membrane to a floor assembly using wood joists, metal-plate-connected wood trusses and open-web steel joists, or to a roof assembly. The channels must be made of galvanized steel not less than 0.5 mm thick spaced not more than 600 mm o.c. perpendicular to the framing members, with an overlap of not less than 100 mm at splices and a minimum end clearance between the channels and walls of 15 mm.
D-2.3.6. Framing Members
1) The values shown in Tables D-2.3.4.-A, D-2.3.4.-B, D-2.3.4.-D and D-2.3.12. apply to membranes supported on framing members installed in their conventional orientation and spaced in conformance with Tables D-2.3.4.-E and D-2.3.4.-F.
2) Wood studs and wood roof framing members are to be not less than 38 mm by 89 mm. Wood floor joists are to be not less than 38 mm by 184 mm, except where they are used in an assembly from Table D-2.3.4.-D or from Table D-2.3.5. that uses a single layer of gypsum board as the lower (ceiling) membrane, in which case, wood floor joists are to be not less than 38 mm by 89 mm.
3) Wood roof trusses are to consist of wood chord and web framing members not less than 38 mm by 89 mm and metal connector plates fabricated from galvanized steel not less than 1 mm in nominal thickness with projecting teeth not less than 8 mm long.
4)
a)
b) c)
Wood floor trusses are to consist of:
metal-plate-connected wood trusses that are not less than 305 mm deep with wood chord and web framing members not less than 38 mm by 64 mm and metal connector plates fabricated from galvanized steel not less than 1 mm in nominal thickness with projecting teeth not less than 8 mm long;
metal-web wood trusses that are not less than 286 mm deep with wood chords not less than 38 mm by 64 mm and V-shaped webs made from galvanized steel not less than 1 mm in nominal thickness with plate areas having teeth not less than 8 mm long; or
fingerjoined wood trusses that are not less than 330 mm deep with fingerjoined connections, chord members not less than 38 mm by 64 mm, and web members not less than 38 mm by 38 mm glued together with a R-14 phenol-resorcinol resin conforming to CSA O112.10, “Evaluation of Adhesives for Structural Wood Products (Limited Moisture Exposure).”
Wood I-joists are to be not less than 241 mm deep with flanges that are not less than 38 mm by 38 mm and an oriented strandboard or plywood web that is not less than 9.5 mm thick.
6) The dimensions for dressed lumber given in CSA O141, “Softwood Lumber,” are to be used for wood studs, joists, I-joists and trusses.
7) Cold-formed-steel studs for non-loadbearing walls are to consist of galvanized steel that is not less than 0.5 mm thick and not less than 63 mm wide, and have a flange that is not less than 31 mm wide.
8) Cold-formed-steel studs in non-loadbearing wall assemblies are to be installed with not less than a 12 mm clearance between the top of the stud and the top of the runner to allow for expansion in the event of a fire. Where the studs are required to be attached for alignment purposes during erection, they must
be attached to the bottom runners only.
9) Cold-formed-steel studs for loadbearing walls are to consist of galvanized steel that is not less than 0.912 mm thick but not greater than 1.52 mm thick, with a C-shaped cross-section not less than 92 mm deep by 41 mm wide and 12.7 mm stiffening lips.
10) Cold-formed-steel studs in loadbearing wall assemblies are to be installed with diagonal cross-bracing.
5)
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B D-17
  © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022
 D-2.3.7. Division B
11) Cold-formed-steel floor joists (C-shaped joists) are to be not less than 41 mm wide x 203 mm deep x 1.22 mm material thickness.
12) The allowable spans for wood joists listed in the Span Tables in Part 9 are provided for floors supporting specific occupancies.
D-2.3.7. Plaster Finish
The thickness of plaster finish shall be measured from the face of gypsum or metal lath.
D-2.3.8. Edge Support for Gypsum Board in Wall Assembly
Gypsum board installed over framing or furring in a wall assembly shall be installed so that all edges are supported, except that 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board may be installed horizontally with the horizontal joints unsupported when framing members are at 400 mm o.c. maximum.
D-2.3.9. Membrane Fastening
1) Except as provided in Sentences (2) to (5), Table D-2.3.4.-B and Sentence D-2.3.5.(5), the application of lath and plaster finish shall conform to CSA A82.30-M, “Interior Furring, Lathing and Gypsum Plastering,” and of gypsum board finish shall conform to ASTM C 840, “Application and Finishing of Gypsum Board.”
2) Where a membrane referred to in Table D-2.3.4.-A, D-2.3.4.-B, D-2.3.4.-C , D-2.3.4.-D or D-2.3.12. is applied to steel framing or furring, fasteners shall penetrate not less than 10 mm through the metal.
3) Except as provided in Sentence (4), where a membrane referred to in
Table D-2.3.4.-A, D-2.3.4.-B, D-2.3.4.-C, D-2.3.4.-D or D-2.3.12. is applied to wood framing or
furring, minimum fastener penetrations into wood members shall conform to Table D-2.3.9. for the time assigned to the membrane.
Type of Membrane
Single layer Double layer Gypsum lath
Notes to Table D-2.3.9.:
5 – 25
20 20 20
30 – 35 40
29 32 20 20 20 23
Time,(1) min
50 55 – 70 80
——— 29 35 44 23 29 29
Table D-2.3.9. Membrane Fastening
Minimum Penetration of Fasteners for Membrane Protection on Wood Framing, mm
(1) Assigned contributions of membranes to fire resistance are listed in Tables D-2.3.4.-A, D-2.3.4.-B, D-2.3.4.-C, D-2.3.4.-D and D-2.3.12.
4) Where a membrane is applied in 2 layers, the fastener penetrations described in Table D-2.3.9. shall apply to the base layer. Fasteners for the face layer shall penetrate not less than 20 mm into wood supports.
5) In a double layer application of gypsum board on wood supports, fastener spacing shall conform to ASTM C 840, “Application and Finishing of Gypsum Board.”
D-2.3.10. Ceiling Membrane Openings – Combustible Construction
1) Except as permitted in Article D-2.3.12., where a floor or roof assembly of combustible construction is assigned a fire-resistance rating on the basis of this Subsection and incorporates a ceiling membrane described in Table D-2.3.4.-B, D-2.3.4.-C or D-2.3.4.-D, the ceiling membrane may be penetrated by openings leading to ducts within concealed spaces above the membrane provided:
a) the assembly is not required to have a fire-resistance rating in excess of 1 h,
b) the area of any openings does not exceed 930 cm2 (see Sentence (2)),
c) the aggregate area of openings does not exceed 1% of the ceiling area of the fire compartment,
d) the depth of the concealed space above the ceiling is not less than 230 mm,
e) no dimension of any opening exceeds 310 mm,
f) supports are provided for openings with any dimension exceeding 150 mm where framing members
are spaced greater than 400 mm o.c.,
D-18 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
       © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

                                             Division B D-2.3.11.
g) individual openings are spaced not less than 2 m apart,
h) the ducts above the membrane are sheet steel and are supported by steel strapping firmly attached
to the framing members, and
i) the clearance between the top surface of the membrane and the bottom surface of the ducts is not
less than 100 mm.
2) Where an individual opening permitted in Sentence (1) exceeds 130 cm2 in area, it shall be protected by
a) a fire stop flap conforming to CAN/ULC-S112.2, “Fire Test of Ceiling Firestop Flap Assemblies,” that activates at a temperature approximately 30°C above the normal maximum temperature that occurs in the ducts, whether the air duct system is operating or shut down, or
b) thermal protection above the duct consisting of the same materials as used for the ceiling membrane, mechanically fastened to the ductwork and extending 200 mm beyond the opening on all sides
(see Article D-2.3.10.).
Figure D-2.3.10.
Thermal protection above a duct
D-2.3.11. Ceiling Membrane Openings – Noncombustible Construction
1) Except as permitted in Article D-2.3.12., where a floor or roof assembly of noncombustible construction is assigned a fire-resistance rating on the basis of this Subsection and incorporates a ceiling membrane described in Table D-2.3.4.-B, D-2.3.4.-C or D-2.3.4.-D, the ceiling membrane may be penetrated by openings leading to ducts located within concealed spaces provided:
a) the area of any opening does not exceed 930 cm2 (see Sentence (2)),
b) the aggregate area of openings does not exceed 2% of the ceiling area of the fire compartment,
c) no dimension of any opening exceeds 400 mm,
d) individual openings are spaced not less than 2 m apart,
e) openings are located not less than 200 mm from major structural members such as beams, columns or joists,
f) the ducts above the membrane are sheet steel and are supported by steel strapping firmly attached to the framing members, and
g) the clearance between the top surface of the membrane and the bottom surface of the duct is not less than 100 mm.
2) Where an individual opening permitted in Sentence (1) exceeds 130 cm2 in area, it shall be protected by
a) a fire stop flap conforming to CAN/ULC-S112.2, “Fire Test of Ceiling Firestop Flap Assemblies,” that activates at a temperature approximately 30°C above the normal maximum temperature that occurs in the ducts, whether the air duct system is operating or shut down, or
b) thermal protection above the duct consisting of the same materials as used for the ceiling membrane, mechanically fastened to the ductwork and extending 200 mm beyond the opening on all sides
(see Article D-2.3.10.).
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B D-19
                                                                                  100 mm (min.)
           GC00095A
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 D-2.3.12. Division B
D-2.3.12. Ceiling Membrane Rating
Where the fire-resistance rating of a ceiling assembly is to be determined on the basis of the membrane only and not of the complete assembly, the ratings may be determined from Table D-2.3.12., provided no openings described in Articles D-2.3.10. and D-2.3.11. are located within the ceiling membrane.
Table D-2.3.12. Fire-Resistance Rating for Ceiling Membranes
Description of Membrane
15.9 mm Type X gypsum board with ≥ 75 mm mineral wool batt insulation above board 19 mm gypsum-sand plaster on metal lath
Double 14.0 mm Douglas Fir plywood phenolic bonded
Double 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
25 mm gypsum-sand plaster on metal lath Double 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board 32 mm gypsum-sand plaster on metal lath
Fire-Resistance Rating, min
          30
          30
          30
          45
          45
          60
          60
D-2.3.13. Membrane Penetrations in Combustible and Noncombustible Construction
1) Where a wall, floor or roof assembly is assigned a fire-resistance rating on the basis of this Subsection and includes a membrane or membranes described in Table D-2.3.4.-A, D-2.3.4.-B, D-2.3.4.-C, D-2.3.4.-D
or D-2.3.12., penetrations of the membrane or membranes must be fire stopped in conformance with the applicable requirements in Article 3.1.9.1. or Sentence 9.10.9.6.(1).
D-2.3.14. Beams
1) Where a steel beam is included with an open-web steel joist and is protected by the same continuous
ceiling, the beam is assumed to have a fire-resistance rating equal to that assigned to the rest of the assembly.
2) The ratings in this Subsection assume that the construction to which the beam is related is a normal one and does not carry unusual loads from the floor or slab above.
D-2.3.15. Wired Glass Assembly Support
1) Openings in a vertical fire separation having a fire-resistance rating of not more than 1 h are allowed to be protected by wired glass assemblies, provided the wired glass is
a) not less than 6 mm thick;
b) reinforced by a steel wire mesh in the form of diamonds, squares or hexagons having dimensions of
i) approximately25mmacrosstheflats,usingwireofnotlessthan0.45mmdiameter,or ii) approximately13mmacrosstheflats,usingwireofnotlessthan0.40mmdiameter,the
wire to be centrally embedded during manufacture and welded or intertwined at each
intersection;
c) set in fixed steel frames with metal not less than 1.35 mm thick and providing a glazing stop of not
less than 20 mm on each side of the glass; and
d) limited in area so that
i) individual panes are not more than 0.84 m2, with neither height nor width more than 1.4 m, and
ii) theareanotstructurallysupportedbymullionsisnotmorethan7.5m2.
2) It is intended that the structural mullions referred to in Subclause (1)(d)(ii) will not distort or be displaced to the extent that there would be a failure of the wired glass closure during the period for which a closure in the fire separation would be expected to function. Hollow structural steel tubing not less than 100 mm square filled with a Portland cement-based grout will satisfy the intent of the Subclause.
D-20 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
    © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B D-2.4.3.
D-2.4. Solid Wood Walls, Floors and Roofs D-2.4.1. Minimum Thickness
The minimum thickness of solid wood walls, floors and roofs for fire-resistance ratings from 30 min to 1.5 h is shown in Table D-2.4.1.
Table D-2.4.1.
Minimum Thickness of Solid Wood Walls, Roofs and Floors, mm(1)(2)
Type of Construction
Solid wood floor with building paper and finish flooring on top(3)
Solid wood, splined or tongued and grooved floor with building paper and finish flooring on top(4)
Solid wood walls of loadbearing vertical plank(3)
Solid wood walls of non-loadbearing horizontal plank(3)
Notes to Table D-2.4.1.:
Fire-Resistance Rating
(1) See CSA O141, “Softwood Lumber,” for sizes.
(2) The fire-resistance ratings and minimum dimensions for floors also apply to solid wood roof decks of comparable thickness with finish roofing
material.
(3) The assembly shall consist of 38 mm thick members on edge fastened together with 101 mm common wire nails spaced not more than 400 mm
o.c. and staggered in the direction of the grain.
(4) The floor shall consist of 64 mm by 184 mm wide planks either tongued and grooved or with 19 mm by 38 mm splines set in grooves and fastened
together with 88 mm common nails spaced not more than 400 mm o.c.
D-2.4.2. Increased Fire-Resistance Rating
1) The fire-resistance rating of the assemblies described in Table D-2.4.1. may be increased by 15 min if one of the following finishes is applied on the fire-exposed side:
a) 12.7 mm thick gypsum board,
b) 20 mm thick gypsum-sand plaster on metal lath, or
c) 13 mm thick gypsum-sand plaster on 9.5 mm gypsum lath.
2) Fastening of the plaster to the wood structure shall conform to Subsection D-2.3.
D-2.4.3.
Supplementary Ratings
Supplementary ratings based on tests are included in Table D-2.4.3. The ratings given shall apply to constructions that conform in all details with the descriptions given.
Table D-2.4.3.
Fire-Resistance Rating of Non-Loadbearing Built-up Solid Wood Partitions(1)
Construction Details
Solid panels of wood boards 64 mm to 140 mm wide grooved and joined with wood splines, nailed together, boards placed vertically with staggered joints, 3 boards thick
Solid panels with 4 mm plywood facings(2) glued to 46 mm solid wood core of glued, tongued and grooved construction for both sides and ends of core pieces with tongued and grooved rails in the core about 760 mm apart
Notes to Table D-2.4.3.:
Actual Overall Thickness, mm
58 54
Fire-Resistance Rating
30 min 1 h
(1) The ratings and notes are taken from “Fire Resistance Classifications of Building Constructions,” Building Materials and Structures Report BMS 92, National Bureau of Standards, Washington, 1942.
(2) Ratings for plywood faced panel are based on phenolic resin glue being used for gluing facings to wood frames. If other types of glue are used for this purpose, the ratings apply if the facings are nailed to the frames in addition to being glued.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B D-21
30 min
89 64
89 89
45 min
114 76
114 89
1 h
165 ——
140 184 89 140
1.5 h
235
       © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national d National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B D-21
30 min
89 64
89 89
45 min
114 76
114 89
1 h
165 ——
140 184 89 140
1.5 h
235
       © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022
 D-2.5. Division B
D-2.5. Solid Plaster Partitions
D-2.5.1. Minimum Thickness
The minimum thickness of solid plaster partitions for fire-resistance ratings from 30 min to 4 h is shown in Table D-2.5.1.
Type of Plaster on Metal Lath(1)
Portland cement-sand(2) or Portland cement-lime-sand
Gypsum-sand
Gypsum-vermiculite, gypsum-perlite, Portland cement-vermiculite or Portland cement-perlite
Notes to Table D-2.5.1.:
Fire-Resistance Rating
Table D-2.5.1.
Minimum Thickness of Non-Loadbearing Solid Plaster Partitions, mm
30 min
50(3) 50(3) 50(3)
45 min
— 50(3) 50(3)
1 h
—
64 50(3)
1.5 h
— — 58
2 h
— — 64
3 h
— — 83
4 h
—
— 102
(1) Metal lath shall be expanded metal lath or welded woven wire fabric supported on 19 mm vertical light steel studs spaced not more than 600 mm o.c. Plaster shall be applied to both sides of the lath.
(2) For mixture of Portland cement-sand plaster, see Sentence D-1.7.2.(2).
(3) CSA A82.30-M, “Interior Furring, Lathing and Gypsum Plastering,” does not permit solid plaster partitions less than 50 mm thick.
D-2.6. Protected Steel Columns
D-2.6.1. Minimum Thickness of Protective Covering
The minimum thickness of protective covering to steel columns is shown in Tables D-2.6.1.-A to D-2.6.1.-F for fire-resistance ratings from 30 min to 4 h.
Table D-2.6.1.-A
Minimum Thickness of Concrete or Masonry Protection to Steel Columns, mm
Description of Cover
Monolithic concrete
Type S concrete(1) (column spaces filled)(2) Type N or L concrete(1) (column spaces filled)(2)
Concrete masonry units(3) or precast reinforced concrete units Type S concrete (column spaces not filled)
Type N or L concrete (column spaces not filled)
Clay or shale brick(4) (column spaces filled)(2) Clay or shale brick(4) (column spaces not filled) Hollow clay tile(5) (column spaces filled)(2) Hollow clay tile(5) (column spaces not filled)
Notes to Table D-2.6.1.-A:
Fire-Resistance Rating
(1) Applies to cast-in-place concrete reinforced with 5.21 mm diam wire wrapped around column spirally 200 mm o.c., or 1.57 mm diam wire mesh with 100 mm by 100 mm openings.
30 min
25 25
50 50 50 50
50(6) 50(6)
45 min
25 25
50 50 50 50
50(6) 50(6)
1 h
25 25
50 50 50 50
50(6) 50(6)
1.5 h
25 25
50 50 50 50
50(6) —
2 h
39 32
64
50
50
50 (7)
—
3 h
64 50
89
77
64
77 (7)
—
4 h
89 77
115 102 77 102
(7) —
(2) The space between the protective covering and the web or flange of the column shall be filled with concrete, cement mortar or a mixture of cement mortar and broken bricks.
(3) Concrete masonry shall be reinforced with 5.21 mm diam wire or wire mesh with 1.19 mm diam wire and 10 mm by 10 mm openings, laid in every second course.
(4) Brick cover 77 mm thick or less shall be reinforced with 2.34 mm diam wire or 1.19 mm diam wire mesh with 10 mm by 10 mm openings, laid in every second course.
D-22 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
             © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
D-2.6.1.
Table D-2.6.1.-A (Continued)
(5) Hollow clay tiles and masonry mortar shall be reinforced with 1.19 mm diam wire mesh with 10 mm by 10 mm openings, laid in every horizontal joint and lapped at corners.
(6) Hollow clay tiles shall conform to CAN/CSA-A82, “Fired Masonry Brick Made from Clay or Shale.”
(7) 50 mm nominal hollow clay tile, reinforced with 1.19 mm diam wire mesh with 10 mm by 10 mm openings laid in every horizontal joint and covered
with 19 mm gypsum-sand plaster and with limestone concrete fill in column spaces, has a 4 h fire-resistance rating.
Table D-2.6.1.-B
Minimum Thickness of Plaster Protection to Steel Columns, mm
Description
Gypsum-sand plaster on 9.5 mm gypsum lath(3)
Gypsum-perlite or vermiculite plaster on 9.5 mm gypsum lath(3)
Gypsum perlite or vermiculite plaster on 12.7 mm gypsum lath(3)
Gypsum perlite or vermiculite plaster on double 12.7 mm gypsum lath(3)
Portland cement-sand plaster on metal lath(4)(5)
Notes to Table D-2.6.1.-B:
Fire-Resistance Rating(1)(2)
M/D(1)
30 to 60 over 60 to 90 over 90 to 120 over 120 to 180 over 180
Notes to Table D-2.6.1.-C:
30 min
16 16 16 16 16
45 min
16 16 16 16 16
Fire-Resistance Rating
1 h 1.5 h 2 h 3 h
(1) To determine the M/D ratio, refer to Article D-2.6.4.
30 min
13 13 13 13
25
45 min
13 13 13 13
25
1 h
13 13 13 13
25
1.5 h
20 20 20 20
—
2 h
— 25
25 25
—
3 h
— — 32 25
—
4 h
— — 50 32
—
(1) Fire-resistance ratings of 30 min and 45 min apply to columns whose M/D ratio is 30 or greater. Fire-resistance ratings greater than 45 min apply to columns whose M/D ratio is greater than 60. Where the M/D ratio is between 30 and 60 and the required fire-resistance rating is greater than
45 min, the total thickness of protection specified in the Table shall be increased by 50%. (To determine M/D, refer to Article D-2.6.4.)
(2) Where the thickness of plaster over gypsum lath is 25 mm or more, wire mesh with 1.57 mm diam wire and openings not exceeding 50 mm by 50 mm shall be placed midway in the plaster.
(3) Lath held in place by 1.19 mm diam wire wrapped around lath 450 mm o.c.
(4) Expanded metal lath 1.36 kg/m 2 fastened to 9.5 mm by 19 mm steel channels held in vertical position around column by 1.19 mm diam wire ties.
(5) For mixture of Portland cement-sand plaster, see Sentence D-1.7.2.(2).
Table D-2.6.1.-C
Minimum Thickness of Gypsum-Sand Plaster on Metal Lath Protection to Steel Columns, mm
Table D-2.6.1.-D
Minimum Thickness of Gypsum-Perlite or Gypsum-Vermiculite Plaster on Metal Lath Protection to Steel Columns, mm
M/D(1)
30 to 60 over 60 to 90 over 90 to 120 over 120 to 180 over180
Fire-Resistance Rating
30 min 45 min 1 h 1.5 h 2 h 3 h 4 h
———
32
16 32 162539 161625 16162539
—— 16161620263545 16161616263545 16161616203235 16161616162635
1616203235
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B D-23
—— — —
            © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 D-2.6.1.
Division B
Notes to Table D-2.6.1.-D:
(1)
To determine the M/D ratio, refer to Article D-2.6.4.
Notes to Table D-2.6.1.-E:
Table D-2.6.1.-D (Continued)
Table D-2.6.1.-E
Steel Columns with Sheet-Steel Membrane and Insulation as Shown in Figures D-2.6.1-A. and D-2.6.1-B.
Type of Protection
See Figure D-2.6.1.-A See Figure D-2.6.1.-B See Figure D-2.6.1.-A See Figure D-2.6.1.-B
Steel Thickness,(1) mm
0.51 0.64 0.64 0.76
Fastening(2)
No. 8 sheet-metal screws 9.5 mm long, 200 mm o.c.
Self-threading screws or No. 8 sheet-metal screws, 600 mm o.c.
No. 8 sheet-metal screws, 9.5 mm long 200 mm o.c.
Crimped joint or No. 8 sheet-metal screws, 300 mm o.c.
Insulation
50 mm mineral wool batts(3)
2 layers 12.7 mm gypsum board
75 mm mineral wool batts,(3) 12.7 mm gypsum board
2 layers 15.9 mm gypsum board
Fire-Resistance Rating
45 min 1.5 h 2 h 2 h
(1) Minimum thickness, galvanized or wiped-zinc-coated sheet-steel.
(2) Sheet-steel shall be securely fastened to the floor and superstructure, or where sheet-steel cover does not extend floor to floor, fire stopping
shall be provided at the level where sheet-steel protection ends. In the latter case, an alternate type of fire protection shall be applied between
the fire stopping and the superstructure.
(3) Conforming to CAN/ULC-S702, “Mineral Fibre Thermal Insulation for Buildings,” Type 1A, minimum density 30 kg/m3: column section and batts
wrapped with 25 mm mesh chicken wire.
Table D-2.6.1.-F
Minimum M/D Ratio for Steel Columns Covered with Type X Gypsum Board Protection(1)
Minimum Thickness of Type X Gypsum Board Protection,(2) mm
1 h
Fire-Resistance Rating
1.5 h 2 h 3 h
——— ———
12.7 75 15.9 55 25.4 35 28.6 35 31.8 35 38.1 35 41.3 35 44.5 35 47.6 35 50.8 35 63.5 35
Notes to Table D-2.6.1.-F:
(1) To determine the M/D ratio, refer to Article D-2.6.4.
(2) See Article D-2.6.5.
—— ——
D-24 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
60
50
40 75
35 55
35 45
35 35
35 35
35 35 75 35 35 45
— — — — —
          © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
D-2.6.1.
Figure D-2.6.1.-A
Column protected by sheet-steel membrane and mineral-wool insulation
Figure D-2.6.1.-B
Column protected by sheet-steel membrane and gypsum board
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division B D-25
   sheet metal screws
                            gypsum board
sheet steel cover
mineral wool insulation
steel column M/D not less than 60
wire mesh
                                                             EG01227B
    screw or crimp joint
EG01228B
              gypsum board
sheet steel cover
               steel column M/D not less than 60
                                                               © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 D-2.6.2. Division B
D-2.6.2. Hollow Unit Masonry Columns
For hollow-unit masonry column protection, the thickness shown in Tables D-2.6.1.-A to D-2.6.1.-D is the equivalent thickness as described in Subsection D-1.6.
D-2.6.3. Effect of Plaster
The effect on fire-resistance ratings of the addition of plaster to masonry and monolithic concrete column protection is described in Subsection D-1.7.
D-2.6.4. Determination of M/D Ratio
1) The ratio M/D to which reference is made in Tables D-2.6.1.-B, D-2.6.1.-C, D-2.6.1.-D and D-2.6.1.-F shall be found by dividing “M,” the mass of the column in kilograms per metre by “D,” the heated perimeter of the steel column section in metres.
2) The heated perimeter “D” of steel columns, shown as the dashed line in Figure D-2.6.4.-A, shall be equal to 2 (B+H) in Examples (1) and (2), and 3.14B in Example (3). In Figure D-2.6.4.-B, the heated perimeter “D” shall be equal to 2 (B+H).
Figure D-2.6.4.-A
Example (1), standard or wide-flange beam; Example (2), hollow structural section (rectangular or square); Example (3), hollow structural section (round)
D-26 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
   BBB
HH
example (1) example (2) example (3) EG01229A
           © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B D-2.6.5.
Figure D-2.6.4.-B
Columns protected by Type X gypsum board without sheet-steel membrane
D-2.6.5. Attachment of Gypsum Board
1) Where Type X gypsum board is used to protect a steel column without an outside sheet-steel membrane, the method of gypsum board attachment to the column shall be as shown in Figure D-2.6.4.-B and shall meet the construction details described in Sentences (2) to (7).
2) The Type X gypsum board shall be applied vertically without horizontal joints.
3) The first layer of gypsum board shall be attached to steel studs with screws spaced not more than
600 mm o.c. and other layers of gypsum board shall be attached to steel studs and steel corner beads with screws spaced at a maximum of 300 mm o.c. Where a single layer of gypsum board is used, attachment screws shall be spaced not more than 300 mm o.c.
4) Steel tie wires spaced at a maximum of 600 mm o.c. shall be used to secure the second last layer of gypsum board in 3- and 4-layer systems.
5) Studs shall be fabricated of galvanized steel not less than 0.53 mm thick and not less than 41.3 mm wide, with legs not less than 33.3 mm long and shall be 12.7 mm less than the assembly height.
6) Corner beads shall
a) be fabricated of galvanized steel that is not less than 0.41 mm thick,
b) have legs not less than 31 mm long,
c) be attached to the gypsum board or stud with 25.4 mm screws spaced not more than 300 mm o.c., and
d) have the attaching fasteners penetrate either another corner bead in multiple layer assemblies or the steel stud member.
7) In a 4-layer system, metal angles shall be fabricated of galvanized steel and shall be not less than 0.46 mm thick with legs not less than 51 mm long.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B D-27
   B
  H
1
3 2 4
  4
5 4
11 33
242
1 layer 2 layers
11 363
252 4
3 layers 4 layers
   1. structural member
2. steel studs
3. gypsum board (type x) 4. steel corner bead
5. tie wire
6. sheet metal angle
EG01230B
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 D-2.6.6. Division B
D-2.6.6. Concrete Filled Hollow Steel Columns
1) A fire-resistance rating, R, is permitted to be assigned to concentrically loaded hollow steel columns that are filled with plain concrete, steel-fibre reinforced concrete or bar-reinforced concrete, that are fabricated and erected within the tolerances stipulated in CSA S16, “Design of Steel Structures,” and that comply with Sentences (2) and (3), provided:
where
Cmax
but shall a)
b) c)
where
=
where
rc Ac D Ec
R KL
λc φc
C
=axialcompressiveforceduetodeadandliveloadswithoutloadfactors,kN,
=
not exceed
1.0 for plain concrete filling (PC),
1.1 for steel-fibre reinforced concrete filling (FC), and 1.7 for bar-reinforced concrete filling (RC),
a
= constant obtained from Table D-2.6.6.-A,
= specified compressive strength of concrete in accordance with CSA A23.3, “Design of Concrete
Structures,” MPa,
= radius of gyration of the concrete area,
= area of concrete, mm2, =outsidediameterofaroundcolumnoroutsidewidthofasquarecolumn,mm,
= initial elastic modulus for concrete, considering the effects of long-term loading for normal-weight
concrete = , where is expressed in MPa, S is the short-term load, and T is the total
load on the column,
= specified fire-resistance rating, min, =effectivelengthofcolumnasdefinedinCSAS16,“DesignofSteelStructures,”mm,
, and = 0.60
subject to the validity limits stated in Table D-2.6.6.-B.
Filling Type
PC FC RC RC PC FC RC RC
Notes to Table D-2.6.6.-A:
(1) See Subsection D-1.4.
Concrete Type(1)
S S S S N N N N
Table D-2.6.6.-A Values of Constant “a”
Steel Reinforcement
n/a
≈ 2% 1.5%-3% 3%-5% n/a
≈ 2% 1.5%-3% 3%-5%
Circular Columns
0.070 0.075 0.080 0.085 0.080 0.085 0.090 0.095
Square Columns
0.060 0.065 0.070 0.075 0.070 0.075 0.080 0.085
2) A pair of steam vent holes shall be provided at each end of the hollow steel column and at each intermediate floor level, and the holes shall be
a) not less than 13 mm in diameter,
b) located on opposite faces, 150 mm above or below a base plate, cap plate or concrete slab,
c) orientated so that adjacent pairs are perpendicular, and
D-28 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
     © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B D-2.7.1.
d) not obstructed by other building elements.
3) Load application and reaction shall be through end bearing in accordance with CSA S16, “Design of Steel Structures.”
Parameter
(MPa)
D (round) (mm) D (square) (mm)
Reinforcement (%) Concrete Cover (mm) R (min)
KL (mm) Class(2)
Notes to Table D-2.6.6.-B:
Table D-2.6.6.-B Validity Limits
Type of Concrete Filling
PC FC RC
20 to 40 140 to 410 140 to 305 n/a
n/a
≤ 120 2000 to 4000 1, 2 or 3
20 to 55
140 to 410
102 to 305
≈ 2% of the concrete mix by mass n/a
≤ 180
2000 to 4500
1, 2 or 3
20 to 55
165 to 410
175 to 305
1.5% to 5% of cross-sectional area(1) ≥ 25
≤ 180
2000 to 4500
1, 2 or 3
(1) Limits on size, number and spacing of bars and ties in accordance with CSA A23.3, “Design of Concrete Structures.”
(2) Classification of sections in accordance with CSA S16, “Design of Steel Structures.”
D-2.7. Individually Protected Steel Beams D-2.7.1. Minimum Thickness of Protective Covering
The minimum thickness of protective covering on steel beams exposed to fire on 3 sides for fire-resistance ratings from 30 min to 4 h is shown in Table D-2.7.1.
Table D-2.7.1.
Minimum Thickness of Cover to Individual Protected Steel Beams, mm(1)
Description of Cover
Type S concrete(2) (beam spaces filled solid)
Type N or L concrete(2) (beam spaces filled solid)
Gypsum-sand plaster on 9.5 mm gypsum lath(3)
Gypsum-perlite or vermiculite plaster on 9.5 mm gypsum lath(3)
Gypsum-perlite or gypsum-vermiculite on 12.7 mm gypsum lath(3)
Gypsum-perlite or vermiculite plaster on double 12.7 mm gypsum lath(3)
Portland cement-sand on metal lath(4)
Gypsum-sand on metal lath(4) (plaster in contact with lower flange)
Gypsum-sand on metal lath with air gap between plaster and lower flange(4)
Gypsum-perlite or gypsum-vermiculite on metal lath(4)
Notes to Table D-2.7.1.:
Fire-Resistance Rating
30 min
  25
  25
  13
Notes to Table D-2.7.1.:
Fire-Resistance Rating
30 min
  25
  25
  13
  13
  13
  13
23 16
16 16
45 min
  25
  25
  13
  13
  13
  13
23 20
16 16
1 h
25
25
13
13
13
13
23 25
16 16
1.5 h
 25
 25
 20
 13
 20
 20
— 39
25 23
2 h
32 25 —
25 25 25
— —
25 23
3 h
50 39 — —
39 25
— —
4 h
64 50 — —
50 39
— —
(1) Where the thickness of plaster finish applied over gypsum lath is 26 mm or more, the plaster shall be reinforced with wire mesh with 1.57 mm diam wire and 50 mm by 50 mm openings placed midway in the plaster.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B D-29
—— 35 48(5)
        © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022
 D-2.7.2.
Division B
Table D-2.7.1. (Continued)
(2) Applies to cast-in-place concrete reinforced by 5.21 mm diam wire spaced 200 mm o.c. or 1.57 mm diam wire mesh with 100 mm by 100 mm openings.
(3) Lath held in place by 1.18 mm diam wire wrapped around the gypsum lath 450 mm o.c.
(4) Expanded metal lath 1.63 kg/m2 fastened to 9.5 mm by 19 mm steel channels held in position by 1.19 mm diam wire.
(5) Plaster finish shall be reinforced with wire mesh with 1.57 mm diam wire and 50 mm by 50 mm openings placed midway in the plaster.
D-2.7.2. Types of Concrete
Concrete is referred to as Type S, N or L, depending on the nature of the aggregate used. This is described in Article D-1.4.1.
D-2.7.3. Effect of Plaster
The effect on fire-resistance ratings of the addition of plaster finish to concrete or masonry beam protection is described in Article D-1.7.1.
D-2.7.4. Exceptions
The fire resistance of protected steel beams depends on the means used to hold the protection in place. Because of the importance of this factor, no rating has been assigned in Table D-2.7.1. to masonry units used as protective cover to steel beams. These ratings, however, may be determined on the basis of comparison with column protection at the discretion of the authority having jurisdiction, if satisfactory means of fastening are provided.
D-2.7.5. Beam Protected by a Membrane
A steel beam or steel joist assembly that is entirely above a horizontal ceiling membrane will be protected from fire below the membrane and will resist structural collapse for a period equal to the fire-resistance rating determined in conformance with Subsection D-2.3. The support for this membrane shall be equivalent to that described in Subsection D-2.3. The rating on this basis shall not exceed 1.5 h.
D-2.8. Reinforced Concrete Columns D-2.8.1. Minimum Dimensions
Minimum dimensions for reinforced concrete columns and minimum concrete cover for vertical steel reinforcement are obtained from Articles D-2.8.2. to D-2.8.5., taking into account the type of concrete, the effective length of the column and the area of the vertical reinforcement.
D-2.8.2.
Method
1) The minimum dimension, t, in millimetres, of a rectangular reinforced concrete column shall be equal to
a) 75 f (R + 1) for all Types L and L40S concrete,
b) 80 f (R + 1) for Type S concrete when the design condition of the concrete column is defined in the
second and fourth columns of Table D-2.8.2.,
c) 80 f (R + 0.75) for Type N concrete when the design condition of the concrete column is defined in the
second and fourth columns of Table D-2.8.2., and
d) 100 f (R + 1) for Types S and N concrete when the design condition of the concrete column is defined
in the third column of Table D-2.8.2.
where
f = the value shown in Table D-2.8.2.,
R = the required fire-resistance rating in hours,
k =theeffectivelengthfactorobtainedfromCSAA23.3,“DesignofConcreteStructures,” h = the unsupported length of the column in metres, and
p =theareaofverticalreinforcementinthecolumnasapercentageofthecolumnarea.
2) The diameter of a round column shall be not less than 1.2 times the value t determined in Sentence (1) for a rectangular column.
D-30 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
D-2.9.1.
Overdesign Factor(2)
1.00 1.25 1.50
Notes to Table D-2.8.2.:
Where kh is not more than 3.7 m
1.0 0.9 0.83
Where kh is more than 3.7 m but not more than 7.3 m
Table D-2.8.2. Values of Factor f(1)
Values of Factor f to be Used in Applying Article D-2.8.2.
(1) For conditions that do not fall within the limits described in Table D-2.8.2., further information may be obtained from Reference (7) in Subsection D-6.1.
(2) Overdesign factor is the ratio of the calculated load carrying capacity of the column to the column strength required to carry the specified loads determined in conformance with CSA A23.3, “Design of Concrete Structures.”
(3) Where the factor f results in a t greater than 300 mm, the appropriate factor f for “All other cases” shall be applicable.
(4) Where p is equal to or less than 3% and the factor f results in a t less than 300 mm, the minimum thickness shall be 300 mm.
D-2.8.3. Minimum Thickness of Concrete Cover
1) Where the required fire-resistance rating of a concrete column is 3 h or less, the minimum thickness in millimetres of concrete cover over vertical steel reinforcement shall be equal to 25 times the number of hours of fire resistance required or 50 mm, whichever is less.
2) Where the required fire-resistance rating of a concrete column is greater than 3 h, the minimum thickness in millimetres of concrete cover over vertical steel reinforcement shall be equal to 50 plus 12.5 times the required number of hours of fire resistance in excess of 3 h.
3) Where the concrete cover over vertical steel required in Sentence (2) exceeds 62.5 mm, wire mesh reinforcement with 1.57 mm diameter wire and 100 mm openings shall be incorporated midway in the concrete cover to retain the concrete in position.
D-2.8.4. Minimum Requirements
The structural design standards may require minimum column dimensions or concrete cover over vertical steel reinforcement differing from those obtained in Sentences D-2.8.2.(1) and D-2.8.2.(2). Where a difference occurs, the greater dimension shall govern.
D-2.8.5. Addition of Plaster
The addition of plaster finish to the concrete column may be taken into account in determining the cover over vertical steel reinforcement by applying the multiplying factors described in Subsection D-1.7. The addition of plaster shall not, however, justify any decrease in the minimum column sizes shown.
D-2.8.6. Built-in Columns
The fire-resistance rating of a reinforced concrete column that is built into a masonry or concrete wall so that not more than one face may be exposed to the possibility of fire at one time may be determined on the basis of cover to vertical reinforcing steel alone. In order to meet this condition, the wall shall conform to Subsection D-2.1. for the fire-resistance rating required.
D-2.9. Reinforced Concrete Beams D-2.9.1. Minimum Cover Thickness
The minimum thickness of cover over principal steel reinforcement in reinforced concrete beams is shown in Table D-2.9.1. for fire-resistance ratings from 30 min to 4 h where the width of the beam or joist is at least 100 mm.
t is not more than 300 mm, p is not more than 3%(3)
1.2 1.1 1.0
All other cases(4)
1.0 0.9 0.83
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B D-31
     © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 D-2.9.2.
Division B
Type of Concrete
Fire-Resistance Rating
30 min 45 min 1 h 1.5 h 2 h
3 h
39
4 h
50
Table D-2.9.1.
Minimum Cover to Principal Steel Reinforcement in Reinforced Concrete Beams, mm
Type S, N or L 20 20 20 25 25
D-2.9.2. Maximum Rating
No rating over 2 h may be assigned on the basis of Table D-2.9.1. to a beam or joist where the average width of the part that projects below the slab is less than 140 mm, and no rating over 3 h may be assigned where the average width of the part that projects below the slab is less than 165 mm.
D-2.9.3. Beam Integrated in Floor or Roof Slab
For the purposes of these ratings, a beam may be either independent of or integral with a floor or roof slab assembly.
D-2.9.4. Minimum Thickness
Where the upper extension or top flange of a joist or T-beam in a floor assembly contributes wholly or partly to the thickness of the slab above, the total thickness at any point shall be not less than the minimum thickness described in Table D-2.2.1.-A for the fire-resistance rating required.
D-2.9.5. Effect of Plaster
The addition of plaster finish to a reinforced concrete beam may be taken into account in determining the cover over principal reinforcing steel by applying the multiplying factors described in Subsection D-1.7.
D-2.10. Prestressed Concrete Beams
D-2.10.1. Minimum Cross-Sectional Area and Thickness of Cover
The minimum cross-sectional area and thickness of concrete cover over steel tendons in prestressed concrete beams for fire-resistance ratings from 30 min to 4 h are shown in Table D-2.10.1.
Table D-2.10.1.
Minimum Thickness of Concrete Cover over Steel Tendons in Prestressed Concrete Beams, mm(1)
Type of Concrete
TypeSorN Type L
Notes to Table D-2.10.1.:
Area of Beam, cm2
260 to 970 Over970to1940 25
Over 1 940 25 Over 970 25
Fire-Resistance Rating
30 min
45 min 1 h
39 50 26 39 26 39 25 25
1.5 h 2 h 3 h 4 h
25
64
45 64
39 50 77 102 39 50 77 102
(1) Where the thickness of concrete cover over the tendons exceeds 64 mm, a wire mesh reinforcement with 1.57 mm diam wire and 100 mm by 100 mm openings shall be incorporated in the beams to retain the concrete in position around the tendons. The mesh reinforcement shall be located midway in the cover.
D-2.10.2. Minimum Cover Thickness
The cover for an individual tendon shall be the minimum thickness of concrete between the surface of the tendon and the fire-exposed surface of the beam, except that for ungrouted ducts the assumed cover thickness shall be the minimum thickness of concrete between the surface of the duct and the surface of the beam. For beams in which several tendons are used, the cover is assumed to be the average of the minimum cover
D-32 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
———
——
         © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B D-2.11.2.
of the individual tendons. The cover for any individual tendon shall be not less than half the value given in Table D-2.10.1. nor less than 25 mm.
D-2.10.3. Applicability of Ratings
The ratings in Table D-2.10.1. apply to a beam that is either independent of or integral with a floor or roof slab assembly. Minimum thickness of slab and minimum cover to steel tendons in prestressed concrete slabs are contained in Subsection D-2.2.
D-2.10.4. Effect of Plaster
The addition of plaster finish to a prestressed concrete beam may be taken into account in determining the cover over steel tendons by applying the multiplying factors described in Subsection D-1.7.
D-2.10.5. Minimum Cover
1) Except as provided in Sentence (2), in unbonded post-tensioned prestressed concrete beams, the concrete cover to the tendon at the anchor shall be not less than 15 mm greater than the minimum required away from the anchor. The concrete cover to the anchorage bearing plate and to the end of the tendon, if it projects beyond the bearing plate, shall be not less than 25 mm.
2) The requirements in Sentence (1) do not apply to those portions of beams not likely to be exposed to fire (such as the ends and the tops of flanges of beams immediately below slabs).
D-2.11. Glued-Laminated Timber Beams and Columns D-2.11.1. Applicability of Information
The information in Subsection D-2.11. applies to glued-laminated timber beams and columns required to have fire-resistance ratings greater than those afforded under the provisions of Article 3.1.4.6.
D-2.11.2. Method of Calculation
1) The fire-resistance rating of glued-laminated timber beams and columns in minutes shall be equal to
a) 0.1 fB [4 − 2(B/D)] for beams that may be exposed to fire on 4 sides,
b) 0.1 fB [4 − (B/D)] for beams that may be exposed to fire on 3 sides,
c) 0.1 fB [3 − (B/D)] for columns that may be exposed to fire on 4 sides, and
d) 0.1 fB [3 − (B/2D)] for columns that may be exposed to fire on 3 sides,
where
f = the load factor shown in Figure D-2.11.2.-A,
B =thefulldimensionofthesmallersideofabeamorcolumninmillimetresbeforeexposure to fire [see Figure D-2.11.2.-B],
D =thefulldimensionofthelargersideofabeamorcolumninmillimetresbeforeexposure to fire [see Figure D-2.11.2.-B],
k =theeffectivelengthfactorobtainedfromCSAO86,“EngineeringDesigninWood,” L = the unsupported length of a column in millimetres.
2) The factored resistance of a beam or column shall be determined by using the specified strengths in CSA O86, “Engineering Design in Wood.”
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B D-33
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 D-2.11.2.
Division B
Figure D-2.11.2.-A
Factors to compensate for partially loaded columns and beams
Note to Figure D-2.11.2.-A:
(1) See Sentence (2).
Figure D-2.11.2.-B
Full dimensions of glued-laminated beams and columns
D-34 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
   1.6 1.5 1.4 1.3 1.2 1.1 1.0
0 25 50 75 100 Factored load* / factored resistance(1), %
*In the case of beams, use bending moment in place of load.
EC01237A
 columns KL ≥ 12 B
and all beams
columns KL < 12 B
Load factor, f
      DD
                          BB
column
beam DD
column wall
                             BB
floor beam
EG01238A
   © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B D-3.1.1.
Section D-3 Flame-Spread Ratings and Smoke Developed Classifications
D-3.1. Interior Finish Materials D-3.1.1. Scope of Information
Tables D-3.1.1.-A and D-3.1.1.-B show flame-spread ratings and smoke developed classifications for combinations of some common interior finish materials. The values are based on all the evidence available at present. Many materials have not been included because of lack of test evidence or because of inability to classify or describe the material in generic terms for the purpose of assigning ratings.
Table D-3.1.1.-A
Assigned Flame-Spread Ratings and Smoke Developed Classifications for Combinations of Wall and Ceiling Finish Materials and Surface Coatings(1)
Materials
Brick, concrete, tile Steel, copper, aluminum Gypsum plaster
Gypsum board
Lumber
Douglas Fir plywood(4)
Poplar plywood(4)
Plywood with Spruce face veneer(4) Douglas Fir plywood(4)
Fibreboard low density
Hardboard
Type 1
Standard Particleboard
Waferboard, OSB
Notes to Table D-3.1.1.-A:
Applicable Material Standard
Minimum Thickness, mm
Surface Coating
25/50 150/300
150/300
150/100 150/100
(5)
150/300 (5)
(5) (5)
None None
0.33 0/0 CSA A82.22-M None
None
25/50
CAN/CSA-A82.27-M ASTM C 1396/C 1396M None
CSA O121
CSA O153
CSA O151
CSA O121 CAN/ULC-S706.1
CAN/CGSB-11.3-M
ANSI A208.1 CSA O437.0 CSA O325
9.5 25/50 16 150/300
11 150/100
6 150/100 11 X/100
9 150/X
6 150/300 12.7 150/300
(1) See Sentence D-1.1.1.(5) for standards used to assign flame-spread ratings and smoke developed classifications.
(2) Flame-spread ratings and smoke developed classifications for paints and varnish are not applicable to shellac and lacquer.
(3) Flame-spread ratings and smoke developed classifications for paints apply only to alkyd and latex paints.
(4) The flame-spread ratings and smoke developed classifications shown are for those plywoods without a cellulose resin overlay.
(5) Insufficient test information available.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division B D-35
— —
(5) (5)
      Unfinished
 Paint or Varnish not more than 1.3 mm Thick, Cellulosic Wallpaper not more than One Layer(2)(3)
            © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 D-3.1.2.
Division B
Table D-3.1.1.-B
Flame-Spread Ratings and Smoke-Developed Classifications for Combinations of Common Floor Finish Materials and Surface Coatings(1)
Materials
Hardwood or softwood flooring either unfinished or finished with a spar or urethane varnish coating
Wool carpet (woven), pile weight not less than 1120 g/m2, applied with or without felt underlay(3)
Nylon carpet, pile weight not less than 610 g/m2 and not more than 800 g/m 2, applied with or without felt underlay(3)
Nylon carpet, pile weight not less than 610 g/m2 and not more than 1355 g/m 2, glued down to concrete
Wool/nylon blend carpet (woven) with not more than 20% nylon and pile weight not less than 1120 g/m 2
Nylon/wool blend carpet (woven) with not more than 50% wool, pile weight not less than 610 g/m2 and not more than 800 g/m2
Polypropylene carpet, pile weight not less than 500 g/m2 and not more than 1200 g/m2, glued down to concrete
Notes to Table D-3.1.1.-B:
Applicable Standard
None CAN/CGSB-4.129 CAN/CGSB-4.129 CAN/CGSB-4.129 CAN/CGSB-4.129 CAN/CGSB-4.129 CAN/CGSB-4.129
FSR/SDC(2)
300/300 300/300 300/500 300/500 300/500 300/500 300/500
(1) Tested on the floor of the tunnel in conformance with provisions of CAN/ULC-S102.2, “Test for Surface Burning Characteristics of Flooring, Floor Coverings, and Miscellaneous Materials and Assemblies.”
(2) Flame-Spread Rating/Smoke Developed Classification.
(3) Type 1 or 2 underlay as described in CGSB 4-GP-36M, “Carpet Underlay, Fiber Type.”
D-3.1.2. Ratings
The ratings shown in Tables D-3.1.1.-A and D-3.1.1.-B are arranged in groups corresponding to the provisions of this Code. The ratings apply to materials falling within the general categories indicated.
D-3.1.3. Table Entries
In Tables D-3.1.1.-A and D-3.1.1.-B, the first number of each entry relates to flame spread and the second number to smoke developed limit. For example:
25/50 represents a flame-spread rating of 0 to 25 and a smoke developed classification of 0 to 50,
150/300 represents a flame-spread rating of 75 to 150 and a smoke developed classification of 100 to 300, and
X/X applied to walls and ceilings means a flame-spread rating over 150 and a smoke developed classification over 300.
D-3.1.4. Effect of Surface Coatings
Thin surface coatings can modify flame-spread characteristics either upward or downward. Table D-3.1.1.-A includes a number of thin coatings that increase the flame-spread rating of the base material, so that these may be considered where more precise control over flame-spread hazard is desired.
D-3.1.5. Proprietary Materials
1) Information on flame-spread rating of proprietary materials and fire-retardant treatments that cannot be described in sufficient detail to ensure reproducibility is available through the listing and labeling services of Underwriters’ Laboratories of Canada, Intertek Testing Services NA Ltd., or other recognized testing laboratory.
2) A summary of flame-spread test results published prior to 1965 has been prepared by NRC (see Item (1) in Subsection D-6.1.).
D-36 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
         © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B D-4.2.3.
D-3.1.6. Limitations and Conditions
1) The propagation of flame along a surface in the standard test involves some finite depth of the material or materials behind the surface, and this involvement extends to the depth to which temperature variations are to be found during the course of the test; for many commonly used lining materials, such as wood, the depth involved is about 25 mm.
2) For all the combustible materials described in Table D-3.1.1.-A, a minimum dimension is shown, and this represents the thickness of the test samples on which the rating has been based; when used in greater thicknesses than that shown, these materials may have a slightly lower flame-spread rating, and thinner specimens may have higher flame-spread ratings.
3) No rating has been included for foamed plastic materials because it is not possible at this time to identify these products with sufficient accuracy on a generic basis. Materials of this type that melt when exposed to the test flame generally show an increase in flame-spread rating as the thickness of the test specimen increases.
D-3.1.7. Referenced Standards
In Tables D-3.1.1.-A and D-3.1.1.-B, the standards applicable to the materials described are noted because the ratings depend on conformance with these specifications.
Section D-4 Noncombustibility D-4.1. Test Method
D-4.1.1. Determination of Noncombustibility
1) Noncombustibility is required of certain components of buildings by the provisions of this Code, which specifies noncombustibility by reference to CAN/ULC-S114, “Test for Determination of Non-Combustibility in Building Materials.”
2) The test to which reference is made in Sentence (1) is severe, and it may be assumed that any building material containing even a small proportion of combustibles will itself be classified as combustible. The specimen, 38 mm by 51 mm, is exposed to a temperature of 750°C in a small furnace. The essential criteria for noncombustibility are that the specimen does not flame or contribute to temperature rise.
D-4.2. Materials Classified as Combustible D-4.2.1. Combustible Materials
Most materials from animal or vegetable sources will be classed as combustible by CAN/ULC-S114, “Test for Determination of Non-Combustibility in Building Materials,” and wood, wood fibreboard, paper, felt made from animal or vegetable fibres, cork, plastics, asphalt and pitch would therefore be classed as combustible.
D-4.2.2. Composite Materials
Materials that consist of combustible and noncombustible elements in combination will in many cases also be classed as combustible, unless the proportion of combustibles is very small. Some mineral wool insulations with combustible binder, cinder concrete, cement and wood chips and wood-fibred gypsum plaster would also be classed as combustible.
D-4.2.3. Effect of Chemical Additives
The addition of a fire-retardant chemical is not sufficient to change a combustible product to a noncombustible product.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B D-37
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 D-4.3. Division B
D-4.3. Materials Classified as Noncombustible D-4.3.1. Typical Examples
Noncombustible materials include brick, ceramic tile, concrete made from Portland cement with noncombustible aggregate, plaster made from gypsum with noncombustible aggregate, metals commonly used in buildings, glass, granite, sandstone, slate, limestone and marble.
Section D-5 Protection of Openings in Fire-Rated Assemblies
D-5.1. Scope
D-5.1.1. Installation Information
1) The information in this Section specifies requirements for the installation of fire doors and fire dampers in gypsum-board-protected stud wall assemblies.
D-5.2. Installation of Fire Doors and Fire Dampers D-5.2.1. References
1) Fire doors and fire dampers in gypsum-board-protected steel stud non-loadbearing walls required to have a fire-resistance rating shall be installed in conformance with Section 9.24. of this Code and the applicable requirements of NFPA 80, “Fire Doors and Other Opening Protectives.”
2) Fire doors and fire dampers in gypsum-board-protected wood stud walls required to have a fire-resistance rating shall be installed in conformance with Section 9.23. of this Code and the applicable requirements of NFPA 80, “Fire Doors and Other Opening Protectives.”
Section D-6 Background Information
D-6.1. Fire Test Reports
Summaries of available fire test information have been published by NRC as follows:
(1) M. Galbreath, Flame Spread Performance of Common Building Materials. Technical Paper No. 170, Division of Building Research, National Research Council Canada, Ottawa, April 1964. NRCC 7820.
(2) M. Galbreath and W.W. Stanzak, Fire Endurance of Protected Steel Columns and Beams. Technical Paper No. 194, Division of Building Research, National Research Council Canada, Ottawa, April 1965. NRCC 8379.
(3) T.Z. Harmathy and W.W. Stanzak, Elevated-Temperature Tensile and Creep Properties of Some Structural and Prestressing Steels. American Society for Testing and Materials, Special Technical Publication 464, 1970, p. 186 (DBR Research Paper No. 424) NRCC 11163.
(4) T.Z. Harmathy, Thermal Performance of Concrete Masonry Walls in Fire. American Society for Testing and Materials, Special Technical Publication 464, 1970, p. 209 (DBR Research Paper No. 423) NRCC 11161.
(5) L.W. Allen, Fire Endurance of Selected Non-Loadbearing Concrete Masonry Walls. DBR Fire Study No. 25, Division of Building Research, National Research Council Canada, Ottawa, March 1970. NRCC 11275.
(6) A. Rose, Comparison of Flame Spread Ratings by Radiant Panel, Tunnel Furnace, and Pittsburgh-Corning
Apparatus. DBR Fire Study No. 22, Division of Building Research, National Research Council Canada,
Ottawa, June 1969. NRCC 10788.
(7) T.T. Lie and D.E. Allen, Calculation of the Fire Resistance of Reinforced Concrete Columns. DBR
Technical Paper No. 378, Division of Building Research, National Research Council Canada, Ottawa,
August 1972. NRCC 12797.
(8) W.W. Stanzak, Column Covers: A Practical Application of Sheet Steel as a Protective Membrane. DBR
Fire Study No. 27, Division of Building Research, National Research Council Canada, Ottawa, February
1972. NRCC 12483.
(9) W.W. Stanzak, Sheet Steel as a Protective Membrane for Steel Beams and Columns. DBR Fire Study No. 23,
Division of Building Research, National Research Council Canada, Ottawa, November 1969. NRCC 10865.
D-38 Division B Amended Page National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B D-6.3.
(10) W.W. Stanzak and T.T. Lie, Fire Tests on Protected Steel Columns with Different Cross-Sections. DBR Fire Study No. 30, Division of Building Research, National Research Council Canada, Ottawa, February 1973. NRCC 13072.
(11) G. Williams-Leir and L.W. Allen, Prediction of Fire Endurance of Concrete Masonry Walls. DBR Technical Paper No. 399, Division of Building Research, National Research Council Canada, Ottawa, November 1973. NRCC 13560.
(12) G. Williams-Leir, Prediction of Fire Endurance of Concrete Slabs. DBR Technical Paper No. 398, Division of Building Research, National Research Council Canada, Ottawa, November 1973. NRCC 13559.
(13) A. Rose, Flammability of Fibreboard Interior Finish Materials. Building Research Note No. 68, Division of Building Research, National Research Council Canada, Ottawa, October 1969.
(14) L.W. Allen, Effect of Sand Replacement on the Fire Endurance of Lightweight Aggregate Masonry Units. DBR Fire Study No. 26, Division of Building Research, National Research Council Canada, Ottawa, September 1971. NRCC 12112.
(15) L.W. Allen, W.W. Stanzak and M. Galbreath, Fire Endurance Tests on Unit Masonry Walls with Gypsum Wallboard. DBR Fire Study No. 32, Division of Building Research, National Research Council Canada, Ottawa, February 1974, NRCC 13901.
(16) W.W. Stanzak and T.T. Lie, Fire Resistance of Unprotected Steel Columns. Journal of Structural Division, Proc., Am. Soc. Civ. Eng., Vol. 99, No. ST5 Proc. Paper 9719, May 1973 (DBR Research Paper No. 577) NRCC 13589.
(17) T.T. Lie and T.Z. Harmathy, Fire Endurance of Concrete-Protected Steel Columns. A.C.I. Journal, January 1974, Title No. 71-4 (DBR Technical Paper No. 597) NRCC 13876.
(18) T.T. Lie, A Method for Assessing the Fire Resistance of Laminated Timber Beams and Columns. Can. J. Civ. Eng., Vol. 4, No. 2, June 1977 (DBR Technical Paper No. 718) NRCC 15946.
(19) T.T. Lie, Calculation of the Fire Resistance of Composite Concrete Floor and Roof Slabs. Fire Technology, Vol. 14, No. 1, February 1978 (DBR Technical Paper No. 772) NRCC 16658.
(20) M.A. Sultan, Y.P. Séguin and P. Leroux. Results of Fire Resistance Tests on Full-Scale Floor Assemblies, Institute for Research in Construction, National Research Council Canada, Ottawa, May 1998, IRC-IR-764.
(21) M.A. Sultan, J.C. Latour, P. Leroux, R.C. Monette, Y.P. Séguin and J.P. Henrie, Results of Fire Resistance Tests on Full-Scale Floor Assemblies - Phase II, Institute for Research in Construction, National Research Council Canada, Ottawa, March 2005, RR-184.
(22) M.A. Sultan and G.D. Lougheed, Results of Fire Resistance Tests on Full-Scale Gypsum Board Wall Assemblies, Institute for Research in Construction, National Research Council Canada, Ottawa, August 2002, IRC-IR-833.
(23) V.K.R. Kodur, M.A. Sultan, J.C. Latour, P. Leroux, R.C. Monette, Experimental Studies on the Fire Resistance of Load-Bearing Steel Stud Walls, Research Report, National Research Council Canada, Ottawa, August 2013, RR-343.
D-6.2. Obsolete Materials and Assemblies
Building materials, components and structural members and assemblies in buildings constructed before 1995 may have been assigned ratings based on earlier editions of the Supplement to the National Building Code of Canada or older reports of fire tests. To assist users in determining the ratings of these obsolete assemblies and structural members, the following list of reference documents has been prepared. Although some of these publications are out of print, reference copies are available through NRC.
(1) M. Galbreath, Fire Endurance of Unit Masonry Walls. Technical Paper No. 207, Division of Building Research, National Research Council Canada, Ottawa, October 1965. NRCC 8740.
(2) M. Galbreath, Fire Endurance of Light Framed and Miscellaneous Assemblies. Technical Paper No. 222, Division of Building Research, National Research Council Canada, Ottawa, June 1966. NRCC 9085.
(3) M. Galbreath, Fire Endurance of Concrete Assemblies. Technical Paper No. 235, Division of Building Research, National Research Council Canada, Ottawa, November 1966. NRCC 9279.
(4) Guideline on Fire Ratings of Archaic Materials and Assemblies. Rehabilitation Guideline #8, U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, Germantown, Maryland 20767, October 1980.
(5) T.Z. Harmathy, Fire Test of a Plank Wall Construction. Fire Study No. 2, Division of Building Research, National Research Council Canada, Ottawa, July 1960. NRCC 5760.
(6) T.Z. Harmathy, Fire Test of a Wood Partition. Fire Study No. 3, Division of Building Research, National Research Council Canada, Ottawa, October 1960. NRCC 5769.
D-6.3. Assessment of Archaic Assemblies
Information in this document applies to new construction. Please refer to early editions of the Supplement to the National Building Code of Canada for the assessment or evaluation of assemblies that do not conform to
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division B D-39
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 D-6.4. Division B
the information in this edition of the National Building Code. As with other documents, this Code is revised according to the information presented to the standing committee responsible for its content, and with each update new material may be added and material that is not relevant may be deleted.
D-6.4. Development of the Component Additive Method
The component additive method was developed based upon the following observations and conclusions drawn from published as well as unpublished test information.
Study of the test data showed that structural failure preceded failure by other criteria (transmission of heat or hot gases) in most of the tests of loadbearing wood-framed assemblies. The major contributor to fire resistance was the membrane on the fire-exposed side.
Fire tests of wood joist floors without protective ceilings resulted in structural failure between 8 and 10 min. Calculation of the time for wood joists to approach breaking stress, based upon the charring rate of natural woods, suggested a time of 10 min for structural failure. This time was subtracted from the fire-resistance test results of wood joist floors and the remainder considered to be the contribution of the membrane.
The figures obtained for the contribution of membranes were then applied to the test results for open web steel joist floors and wood and steel stud walls and values of 20 min for the contribution of wood stud framing and 10 min for steel framing were derived.
The fire-resistance rating has been limited to 1.5 h as this method of developing ratings for framed assemblies was new and untried. Although this is the subject of current review, no decision has been made to extend
the ratings beyond 1.5 h.
(1) M. Galbreath, G. C. Gosselin, and R. B. Chauhan, Historical Guide to Chapter 2 of the Supplement to the
National Building Code of Canada, Committee Paper FPR 1-3, Prepared for the Standing Committee on Fire Performance Ratings, May 1987.
Example showing fire-resistance rating of a typical membrane assembly, calculated using the component additive method.
1 hour Gypsum Board/Wood Stud Interior Partition
A 1 h fire-resistance rating is required for an interior wood framed partition, using 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board.
(a) Sincegypsumboardisused(SentenceD-2.3.4.(2)andTableD-2.3.4.-A)timeassignedto12.7mmTypeX gypsum board membrane on the fire-exposed side of the partition = 25 min
(b) Time assigned to wood framing members at 400 mm o.c. (Sentence D-2.3.4.(3) and Table D-2.3.4.-E) = 20 min
(c) Time assigned to insulation, if the spaces between the studs are filled with preformed insulation of rock or slag fibres conforming to CAN/ULC-S702, “Mineral Fibre Thermal Insulation for Buildings,” (Sentence D-2.3.4.(4) and Table D-2.3.4.-G) = 15 min
(d) Timeassignedtothemembraneonthenon-fire-exposedside(SentenceD-2.3.5.(1))=0min Fire-resistance rating = 25 + 20 + 15 = 60 min
D-40 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division C Administrative Provisions
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division C
Part 1 General
1.1. Application
1.1.1. Application ........................................ 1-1
1.2. Terms and Abbreviations
1.2.1. Definitions of Words and Phrases .. 1-1
1.2.2. Symbols and Other Abbreviations .. 1-1
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1

 Division C
Part 1 General
Section 1.1. Application
1.1.1. Application 1.1.1.1. Application
1) This Part applies to all buildings covered in this Code. (See Article 1.1.1.1. of Division A.)
Section 1.2. Terms and Abbreviations
1.2.1. 1.2.1.1.
Definitions of Words and Phrases Non-defined Terms
1) Words and phrases used in Division C that are not included in the list of definitions in Article 1.4.1.2. of Division A shall have the meanings that are commonly assigned to them in the context in which they are used, taking into account the specialized use of terms by the various trades and professions to which the terminology applies.
2) Where objectives and functional statements are referred to in Division C, they shall be the objectives and functional statements described in Parts 2 and 3 of Division A.
3) Where acceptable solutions are referred to in Division C, they shall be the provisions stated in Parts 3 to 11 of Division B.
4) Alternative solutions referred to in Division C, are those referred to in Clause 1.2.1.1.(1)(b) of Division A.
Defined Terms
1) The words and terms in italics in Division C shall have the meanings assigned
to them in Article 1.4.1.2. of Division A.
Symbols and Other Abbreviations Symbols and Other Abbreviations
1) The symbols and other abbreviations in Division C shall have the meanings assigned to them in Article 1.4.2.1. of Division A.
1.2.1.2.
1.2.2. 1.2.2.1.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Amended Page Division C 1-1
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022
1-2 Division C National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1

 Division C
Part 2
Administrative Provisions
2.1. Application
2.1.1. Application ........................................ 2-1
2.2. Administration
2.2.1. Administration .................................. 2-1
2.2.2. Information Required for
Proposed Work ................................. 2-1
2.2.3. Fire Protection Components ........... 2-2
2.2.4. Structural and Foundation
Drawings and Calculations ............. 2-2
2.2.5. Drawings and Specifications for
Environmental Separators and
Other Assemblies Exposed to
the Exterior ....................................... 2-3
2.2.6. Heating, Ventilating and Air-conditioning Drawings and
Specifications ................................... 2-3
2.2.7. Declaration of Construction Work .. 2-3
2.2.8. Deleted .............................................. 2-4
2.3. Approval of Alternative Solutions
2.3.1. Approval of Alternative Solutions ... 2-4
Notes to Part 2 .................. 2-5
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1

 Division C
Part 2
Administrative Provisions
Section 2.1. Application
2.1.1. Application 2.1.1.1. Application
1) This Part applies to all buildings covered in this Code. (See Article 1.1.1.1. of Division A.)
Section 2.2. Administration
2.2.1. 2.2.1.1.
2.2.1.2.
2.2.2. 2.2.2.1.
2.2.2.2.
Administration
Conformance with Administrative Requirements
1) This Code shall be administered in conformance with the appropriate provincial or territorial regulations, municipal bylaws or, in the absence of such regulations
or bylaws, in conformance with the Administrative Requirements for Use with the National Building Code of Canada 1985.
Structural Design
1) For design carried out in accordance with Part 4 of Division B, the designer shall be a professional engineer or architect skilled in the work concerned. (See Note A-2.2.1.2.(1).)
Information Required for Proposed Work General Information Required
1) Sufficient information shall be provided to show that the proposed work will conform to this Code and whether or not it may affect adjacent property.
2) Plans shall be drawn to scale and shall indicate the nature and extent of the work or proposed occupancy in sufficient detail to establish that, when completed, the work and the proposed occupancy will conform to this Code.
3) When proposed work is changed during construction, information on the changes shall comply with the requirements of this Section for proposed work.
Site Plans
1) Site plans shall be referenced to an up-to-date survey and, when required to
prove compliance with this Code, a copy of the survey shall be provided.
2) Site plans shall show
a) by dimensions from property lines, the location of the proposed building,
b) the similarly dimensioned location of every adjacent existing building on
the property,
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division C 2-1 National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division C 2-1
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022
 2.2.3.1.
Division C
2.2.3. 2.2.3.1.
Fire Protection Components
Information Required for Fire Protection Components
1) Information shall be submitted to show the major components of fire protection including
a) the division of the building by firewalls,
b) the building area,
c) the degree of fire separation of storeys, shafts and special rooms or areas, including the location and rating of closures in fire separations,
d) the source of information for fire-resistance ratings of elements of construction (to be indicated on large-scale sections),
e) the location of exits, and
f) fire detection, suppression and alarm systems.
Plans of Sprinkler Systems
1) Before a sprinkler system is installed or altered, plans showing full details of the proposed sprinkler system and essential details of the building in which it is to be installed shall be drawn to an indicated scale.
Structural and Foundation Drawings and Calculations Application
1) This Subsection applies only to buildings covered in Part 4 of Division B. (See Article 1.3.3.2. of Division A.)
Professional Seal and Signature of Designer
1) Structural drawings and related documents shall be dated and shall bear the authorized professional seal and signature of the designer as defined in Sentence 2.2.1.2.(1).
Information Required on Structural Drawings
1) Structural drawings and related documents shall indicate, in addition to those items specified in Article 2.2.4.6. and in Part 4 of Division B applicable to the specific material,
a) the name and address of the person responsible for the structural design,
b) the date of issue of the Code and standards to which the design conforms,
c) the dimensions, location and size of all structural members in sufficient detail to enable the design to be checked,
d) sufficient detail to enable the dead loads to be determined, and
e) all effects and loads, other than dead loads, used for the design of the
structural members and exterior cladding.
Drawings of Parts or Components
1) Structural drawings of parts or components including guards designed by
a person other than the designer of the building shall be dated and shall bear the authorized professional seal and signature of the designer of such parts or components.
Design Calculations and Analysis
1) The calculations and analysis made in the design of the structural members, including parts and components, of a building shall be available for inspection upon request.
2.2.3.2.
2.2.4. 2.2.4.1.
2.2.4.2.
2.2.4.3.
2.2.4.4.
2.2.4.5.
2-2 Division C
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
c) d)
existing and finished ground levels to an established datum at or adjacent to the site, and
the access routes for firefighting.
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division C
2.2.7.1.
2.2.4.6.
Information Required on Foundation Drawings
1) Foundation drawings shall be provided to indicate
a) the type and condition of the soil or rock, as well as the groundwater
conditions, as determined by the subsurface investigation,
b) the factored bearing pressures on the soil or rock, the factored loads when
applicable and the design loads applied to foundation units, and
c) the earth pressures and other loads applied to the supporting structures of
supported excavations.
2) Evidence that justifies the information on the drawings shall be included in the
documents accompanying them.
Altered Conditions
1) Where conditions as described under Sentences 4.2.2.4.(1) and (2) of Division B are encountered, or where foundation units or their locations are altered, this information shall be recorded on appropriate drawings or new “as constructed” drawings.
Drawings and Specifications for Environmental Separators and Other Assemblies Exposed to the Exterior
Application
1) This Subsection applies to building materials, components and assemblies to
which Part 5 of Division B applies. (See Article 1.3.3.2. of Division A.)
Information Required on Drawings and Specifications
1) Information shown on drawings and in specifications shall be clear and legible, and shall contain sufficient details to demonstrate conformance with this Code. (See Note A-2.2.6.2.(1).)
Heating, Ventilating and Air-conditioning Drawings and Specifications
Application
1) This Subsection applies only to buildings covered in Part 6 of Division B. (See
Article 1.3.3.2. of Division A.)
Information Required on Drawings
1) The information shown on architectural drawings and on drawings for heating, ventilating and air-conditioning systems shall be clear and legible and shall contain all necessary details to demonstrate conformance with this Code. (See Note A-2.2.6.2.(1).)
Declaration of Construction Work Application
1) The general contractor or, in the general contractor’s absence, the specialized contractor or the owner-builder shall declare to the Régie du bâtiment du Québec all construction work performed on a building or facility intended for use by the public and to which Chapter I of the Construction Code (chapter B-1.1, r. 2) applies.
2) Sentence (1) does not apply to construction work declared under subparagraph 1.1 of the first paragraph of section 120 of the Act respecting land use planning
and development (chapter A-19.1) or under another chapter of the Construction
Code (chapter B-1.1, r. 2) or to maintenance or repair work to which Chapter I of the Construction Code applies.
2.2.4.7.
2.2.5. 2.2.5.1.
2.2.5.2.
2.2.6. 2.2.6.1.
2.2.6.2.
2.2.7. 2.2.7.1.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1 Division C 2-3
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 2.2.7.2.
Division C
2.2.7.2.
2.2.7.3.
2.2.7.4.
Submission of the Declaration
1) The declaration required under Article 2.2.7.1. shall be submitted to the Régie du bâtiment du Québec not later than the twentieth day of the month following the date on which work starts.
Form
1) The declaration of work is permitted to be made on the form provided by the
Régie or on any other document clearly and legibly completed for that purpose.
Content
1) The declaration shall contain
a) the address of the building or facility intended for use by the public, if
applicable, and the lot number of the site where the work is performed,
b) the name, address and telephone number of the person for whom the work
is performed,
c) the name, address, telephone number and licence number of the contractor
or owner-builder,
d) the estimated start and end dates of the construction work,
e) the nature and type of the work,
f) the occupancy of the building or facility intended for use by the public, its
classification under the NBC, the existing and planned number of storeys
and building area, and
g) the name, address and telephone number of the person who prepared the
plans and specifications relating to the construction work.
Deleted Deleted
2.2.7.5. 2.2.8.
Section 2.3. Approval of Alternative Solutions
2.3.1. 2.3.1.1.
Approval of Alternative Solutions Conditions of Approval
1) The proposed alternative solutions shall be approved by the Régie on the conditions it sets pursuant to section 127 of the Building Act (chapter B-1.1).
2-4 Division C
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division C
Notes to Part 2 Administrative Provisions
A-2.2.1.2.(1) Structural Design. Part 4 of Division B is written on the assumption that structural design will be carried out by a professional who is qualified to perform such design. Sentence 2.2.1.2.(1) is not intended to imply that a professional may not also be required in the application of requirements in other Parts of the NBC.
A-2.2.6.2.(1) Information Required on Drawings and Specifications. Examples of information that should be shown on architectural drawings and drawings for heating, ventilating and air-conditioning systems are:
(a) the name, type and location of the building,
(b) the name of the owner,
(c) the name of the architect,
(d) the name of the engineer or designer,
(e) the north point,
(f) the dimensions and height of all rooms,
(g) the intended use of all rooms,
(h) thedetailsordescriptionofthewall,roof,ceilingandfloorconstruction,includinginsulation,
(i) thedetailsordescriptionofthewindowsandoutsidedoors,includingthesize,weatherstripping,storm sashes, sills and storm doors,
(j) thesizeandcontinuityofallpipes,ducts,shafts,fluesandfiredampers,
(k) thelocation,size,capacityandtypeofallprincipalunitsofequipment,
(l) the size, shape and height of all chimneys and gas vents,
(m) thesizeandlocationofallcombustionairandventilationopenings,and
(n) the location and fire-resistance rating of required fire separations.
These Notes are included for explanatory purposes only and do not form part of the requirements. The number that introduces each Note corresponds to the applicable requirement in this Part.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Division C 2-5
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022
2-6 Division C National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1

 Index
Abbreviations acronyms, 1.3.2.1. symbols and, 1.2.2.1. terms and, 1.4.1.2.[A]
A
roof area, 3.2.5.3.
storeys below ground, 3.2.2.15. storeys above grade, 3.2.5.1. street frontages, 3.2.2.10.
Accessibility (see Barrier-free) Access openings
HVAC systems, 6.8.1.1. Access panels, 3.2.5.1., 9.10.20.1. Access routes
design, 3.2.5.6.
location, 3.2.5.5., 9.10.20.3.
need for, 3.2.5.4.
self-service storage buildings, 3.9.2.3. as streets, 3.2.2.10.
Adfreezing, 1.4.1.2.[A], 4.2.4.4. Adhesives
ceramic wall tiles, 9.29.10.3.
ducts, 3.6.5.4., 9.33.6.4. Administration of the Code, 2.2.[C] Admixtures
concrete, 9.3.1.8.
mortar and grout, 9.20.3.2. Aggregate
for built-up-roofing, 9.26.11.1., 9.26.11.4.
for concrete, 9.3.1.1., 9.3.1.4., 9.3.1.7.
for mortar, 5.9.1.1., 9.20.3.1., 9.20.3.2., 9.29.10.2. for stucco, 9.28.2.2., 9.28.5.1.
Air
circulation, 6.3.2.7., 9.33.6.7.
distribution, 9.33.6.11.
flow through and around insulation, 5.3.1.3.,
9.19.1.3., 9.25.2.3., 9.25.2.4.
leakage, 3.1.8.4., 5.1.1.1., 5.4.1.1., 5.9.3.4., 5.9.4.1.,
9.25.5.1.
leakage resistance, 5.4.1.1., 5.4.1.2., 9.13.4., 9.18.6.2.,
9.25.5.1.
makeup, 6.3.2.8., 9.32.3.8. permeance, 5.4.1.2., 9.25.5.1. tempering, 9.32.3.4., 9.32.3.8. transfer, 5.1.1.1., 5.2.1.3.
Air barrier systems
airtightness, 5.4.1.1.
assemblies in contact with the ground, 9.13.4.,
9.25.3.6.
continuity, 5.4.1.2., 9.25.3.3. crawl space floors, 9.18.6.2. definition, 1.4.1.2.[A] deflections, 5.2.2.1.
Acceptable solutions, 1.1.2.1., 1.2.1.1.[A] Access
attics or roof spaces, 3.6.4.4., 9.19.2.1. chimneys, 6.3.3.4.
crawl spaces, 3.6.4.6., 9.18.2.1., 9.18.4.1. fire dampers, 3.1.8.10.
hatchways to roof, 9.19.2.1.
horizontal service spaces, 3.6.4.5., 9.18.2.1.,
9.18.4.1., 9.19.2.1.
HVAC equipment, 6.2.1.6., 9.33.4.4. smoke dampers, 3.1.8.11.
Access to exits
capacity, 3.3.1.17., 9.9.3.
corridors in assembly occupancy, 3.3.2.6. corridor width, 3.3.1.9.
dead-end corridors, 9.9.7.3.
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
dimensions, 9.9.3.
doors, 3.3.1.13., 3.3.2.7., 9.9.6., 9.9.7.4.
doors, sliding, 3.3.1.12.
doors, transparent, 3.3.1.19.
dwelling units, 9.9.9.
within floor areas, 3.3.1.3.
headroom clearance, 3.3.1.8., 9.9.3.4. independent access to, 9.9.7.5.
lighting, 9.9.12.2.
podiums, terraces, platforms and contained open
spaces, 9.9.7.1.
residential occupancy, 3.3.4.4.
roofs, 3.3.1.3., 9.9.7.1.
service rooms, 9.9.7.5.
suites, 9.9.7.2.
transparent panels, 3.3.1.19.
travel distance, 9.9.7.6.
when exits are means of egress, 9.9.7. width, 9.9.3.2., 9.9.3.3.
Access for firefighting
access routes, 3.2.5.4., 3.2.5.5., 3.2.5.6. basements, 3.2.5.2., 9.10.20.2.
and building size determination, 1.3.3.4.[A] provisions, 9.10.20.
[A] – Reference occurs in Division A. [C] – Reference occurs in Division C. All other references occur in Division B.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Index
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 environmental loads, 5.1.4.1.
environmental separation, 5.1.1.1. floors-on-ground, 9.18.6.2., 9.25.3.6.
housing and small buildings, 9.25.3. installation, 9.23.2.2., 9.25.3.3.
material standards, 5.9.1.1., 9.18.6.2., 9.25.3.2.,
9.25.3.6.
properties, 9.25.3.1., 9.25.5.1. properties of, 5.4.1.2., 9.25.3.2. repair garages, 9.10.9.17. requirement for, 9.25.3.1. storage garages, 9.10.9.16.
Airborne sound rating, 3.3.4.6., 5.8.1.2., 9.11. Air cleaning devices, 6.3.2.14. Air-conditioning systems and equipment
access, 6.2.1.6., 6.8.1.1., 9.33.4.4.
cleaning, 6.2.1.6., 9.33.4.4.
cooling units, 6.6.1.1.
design, 6.2.1., 9.33.1.1., 9.33.3.2., 9.33.4.1., 9.33.5.3. fire safety characteristics, 6.9.1.1., 9.33.6. installation, 6.2.1., 6.6.1.1., 9.32.3.2., 9.33.1.1.,
9.33.4., 9.33.5.2., 9.33.9.1.
installation standards, 6.2.1.5., 9.33.5.2., 9.33.5.3.,
9.33.6.7.
protection from freezing, 6.2.1.6., 9.33.4.5. structural movement, 4.1.8.18., 6.2.1.4., 9.33.4.7. system pressure, 6.2.1.3., 9.33.4.6.
Air duct systems
application of Code, 6.3.2.1.
clearance of ducts and plenums, 6.3.2.6. connections, 6.3.2.4.
drain pans, 6.3.2.2.
duct coverings and linings, 6.3.2.5. interconnection, 6.3.2.7.
makeup air, 6.3.2.8.
materials, 6.3.2.3.
supply, return, intake and exhaust air openings,
6.3.2.9.
Air filters, 6.8.1.3., 9.33.6.14. Air intakes
area, 9.32.3.13.
connection, 9.33.6.6.
grilles, 6.3.2.9., 9.33.6.10.
labeling, 9.32.3.13.
location, 6.3.2.9., 9.32.3.13., 9.33.6.10., 9.33.6.12. protection, 6.3.2.9., 9.32.3.13., 9.33.6.10.
Air outlets
area, 9.32.3.13.
capacity, 9.33.6.11.
diffusers, 9.33.6.10., 9.33.6.11.
grilles, 6.3.2.9., 9.32.3.13., 9.33.6.10.
labeling, 9.32.3.13.
location, 6.3.2.9., 9.32.3.13., 9.33.6.10., 9.33.6.11. protection, 6.3.2.9., 9.32.3.13., 9.33.6.10.
warm air heating, 9.33.6.10., 9.33.6.11.
Air quality, emergency power supply, 3.2.7.9. Air-supported structures
clearance to flammable material, 3.1.6.4. clearance to other structures, 3.1.6.3. definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
electrical systems, 3.1.6.7.
emergency air supply, 3.1.6.6. fire protection, 9.10.1.3.
fire safety restrictions, 3.1.6.2. flame resistance, 3.1.6.5. means of egress, 3.1.6.1.
roof coverings, 3.1.15.2.
structural design basis, 4.4.1.1. Airtightness
material standards, 5.9.1.1.
requirement for, 5.4.1.1.
windows, doors and skylights, 5.9.2.3., 9.7.4.
Air washers, 6.3.2.16. Aisles
with fixed seats, 3.3.2.5.
within floor areas, 3.3.1.10.
leading to exits, 3.4.2.5.
minimum clear width, 3.3.2.1. outdoor places of assembly, 3.3.2.11. with steps, handrails for, 3.3.2.10. width, 3.4.3.2.
Alarm signal
audibility, 3.2.4.17., 3.2.4.18. definition, 1.4.1.2.[A] design, 3.2.4.4.
high buildings, 3.2.6.7. silencing, 3.2.4.6.
system monitoring, 3.2.4.15.
Alert signal
audibility, 3.2.4.17., 3.2.4.18. definition, 1.4.1.2.[A] design, 3.2.4.4.
high buildings, 3.2.6.7. system monitoring, 3.2.4.15.
Alterations to buildings, 1.1.1.1.[A], 1.4.1.2.[A] Alternative materials, 1.2.2.1.[A]
Alternative solutions, 1.2.1.1.[A], 2.3.1.[C] Aluminum
flashing, 9.20.13.1., 9.26.4.2., 9.27.3.7., 9.28.1.5. nails, 9.26.2.3.
roofing, 9.26.13.1.
siding, 9.27.11.1.
structural design basis, 4.3.5. Ambulatory clinic occupancy
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A] Ammonium nitrate, 3.3.6.6. Anchorage
anchor bolts, 9.20.11.6., 9.20.17.6. columns, 9.23.6.2., 9.35.4.3. concrete stairs, 9.8.10.2.
cornices, 9.20.11.5.
floors, 9.20.11.
foundations, 9.23.6., 9.35.4.3.
framing, 9.23.6.
horizontal force factor, 4.1.8.18.
lateral loads, 9.23.6.1.
masonry, 9.20.9., 9.20.11.
masonry walls to wood-frame construction,
9.20.11.3., 9.20.11.4. roofs, 9.20.11., 9.20.17.6. sills, 9.20.11.5.
Index National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 small buildings, 9.23.6.3.
walls, 9.20.11., 9.23.3.4.
Anhydrous ammonia, storage, 3.3.6.3. Annunciators, fire alarm, 3.2.4.8., 3.2.4.9., 3.2.4.15.,
3.2.5.14., 3.2.7.10.
Antennas and antenna-supporting structures
earthquake loads and effects, 4.1.8.1.
wind loads, 4.1.7.11.
Apparent sound transmission class (ASTC)
calculation of, 5.8.1.2., 5.8.1.4., 5.8.1.5., 9.11.1.2. compliance, 5.8.1.3., 9.11.1.3.
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
Appliances
(see also Heating appliances; Heating systems
and equipment; Heating, ventilating and air-conditioning (HVAC) systems and equipment)
in access to exit, 3.3.1.2.
air-conditioning, 6.2.1., 9.33.4.1., 9.33.5.2. characteristics, 1.2.2.1.[A]
cooling, 6.2.1., 6.6.1.1., 9.33.4.1., 9.33.5.2., 9.33.9.1. definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
in exit, 3.4.4.4.
exterior, 3.6.1.5.
fuel-fired, 3.6.2.1., 9.10.10.4.
heating, 6.2.1.1., 9.33.4.1., 9.33.5.2.
location, 3.6.1.5., 6.3.2.17., 6.4.1.1., 9.10.10.4.
in means of egress, 9.9.5.7.
outdoor location, 6.2.1.6., 6.3.2.17., 6.4.1.2. protection from freezing, 6.2.1.6., 9.33.4.5. roof-top, 3.6.1.5., 3.6.2.1., 6.4.1.2., 9.10.1.3. solid-fuel-burning, 3.6.2.1., 6.2.1.5., 9.33.5.3. storage, 1.2.2.2.[A]
used, 1.2.2.3.[A]
ventilating, 6.2.1., 9.32.3.2.
Application of National Building Code divisions A, B, C, 1.3.[A] factory-constructed buildings, 1.1.1.1.[A] farm buildings, 1.1.1.1.[A]
new buildings, 1.1.1.1.[A]
objectives, 2.1.1.[A], 3.2.[A]
seasonally and intermittently occupied buildings,
9.1.1.1. Arches
fire-resistance ratings, 9.10.8.3.
in storeys below ground, 3.2.2.15. supporting floor above basement, 3.2.1.4. supporting masonry over openings, 9.20.5.2. supporting service room/space, 3.1.7.5.
Arch roofs, snow and rain loads, 4.1.6.10. Areas of refuge, 3.3.3.6.
Areas and spaces
design, 9.5.
dimensions, 9.5.1.1. Arena-type buildings
building classification, 3.1.2.3. building height exceptions, 3.2.1.1. roof assemblies, 3.2.2.17.
seating, 3.3.2.2.
Artesian groundwater, 1.4.1.2.[A], 4.2.5.5.
Asbestos in air distribution systems and equipment, 6.2.1.7., 9.33.4.8.
Assembly areas
loads on floor or roof, 4.1.5.3. loads on tributary areas, 4.1.5.8. sway forces and load, 4.1.5.10.
Assembly occupancy (Group A)
air-supported structure as, 3.1.6.6.
assistive listening devices, 3.8.2.9., 3.8.3.18. building classification, 3.1.2.1.
corridors, 3.3.2.6.
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
doors, 3.3.2.7.
fire protection, 3.2.2.17., 3.2.2.20. - 3.2.2.35., 9.10.1.3. fire safety within floor areas, 3.3.1., 3.3.2.1. location of smoke/fire dampers, 3.1.8.7.
occupant load, 3.1.17.1.
signals to fire department, 3.2.4.7.
visual alarm signals, 3.2.4.19.
washrooms, 3.7.2.
wheelchair spaces, 3.8.2.3.
Assistive listening devices, 3.8.2.9., 3.8.3.18. Atomizers, 6.3.2.16.
Attendant booths, 6.3.1.4.
Attics or roof spaces
access, 3.6.4.4., 9.19.2.
clearances, 9.19.1.3.
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
exterior wall enclosing, 3.2.3.3.
fire blocks, 3.1.11.1., 3.1.11.5., 9.10.16.1. fire protection, 9.10.12.4.
foamed plastics in, 3.1.4.2., 9.10.17.10. housing and small buildings, 9.19. insulation, 9.25.2.4.
loads, 4.1.5.3., 9.4.2.4.
in noncombustible construction, 3.1.5.3. service spaces, 3.6.1.1.
soffits protection, 3.2.3.16.
venting, 5.3.1.2., 6.3.1.2., 9.19.1.
Audible signal devices, 3.2.4.17., 3.2.4.18. Auditoriums, 3.2.2.21., 3.2.2.22.
Authority having jurisdiction, 1.4.1.2.[A]
Automatic locking devices, 3.3.4.5.
Automatic sprinkler systems (see Sprinkler systems)
B
Backdraft prevention, 6.3.2.10., 9.32.3.13. Backfill
(see also Fill) excavations, 9.12.3. material, 4.2.5.8., 9.12.3.3.
Backfilling
(see also Fill)
beneath concrete stairs, 9.8.10.3. beneath floors on grade, 4.2.5.8. beneath footings, 4.2.5.8. beneath foundations, 4.2.5.8.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Index
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 grading, 9.12.3.2. placement, 4.2.5.8., 9.12.3.1. review, 4.2.2.3.
Bacteria, minimizing growth of, 6.3.1.6., 6.3.2.15. Balance stops, 9.33.6.9.
Balconies
as access to exit, 9.9.9.3.
concealed spaces in, 3.1.11.5.
doors and door hardware, 3.3.1.13. earthquake load and effects, 4.1.8.1. exception to travel limit, 9.9.9.1.
exterior, 3.2.2.11.
guards around, 3.3.1.18., 9.8.8.
horizontal exits, 3.4.6.10.
limiting distance, 3.2.3.6.
loads on floor or roof, 4.1.5.3., 4.1.5.4., 9.4.2.3. occupant load, 3.1.17.1.
snow loads, 9.4.2.3.
sprinkler systems, 3.2.5.12.
wind loads, 4.1.7.5.
Banks, 3.4.6.17. Barrier-free
balconies, 3.3.1.7.
bathtubs, 3.8.2.8., 3.8.3.17.
controls, 3.8.2.6., 3.8.3.8.
counters, 3.8.2.11., 3.8.3.19.
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
design standards, 3.8., 3.8.3.1., 9.5.2.
doors and doorways, 3.8.3.6.
drinking fountains, 3.8.2.8., 3.8.3.10. elevators, 3.3.1.7., 3.5.2.1., 3.8.2.3., 3.8.3.7. entrances, 3.8.2.2.
exterior walks, 3.8.3.3.
floor areas, 3.8.2.3.
floor surfaces, 3.8.3.2.
lavatories, 3.8.2.8., 3.8.3.15.
parking areas, 3.8.2.5.
path of travel (see Path of travel, barrier-free) ramps, 3.8.3.5.
showers, 3.8.2.8., 3.8.3.16.
signs, 3.8.2.10., 3.8.3.9.
soap and towel dispensers, 3.8.3.15., 3.8.3.16. spaces in seating areas, 3.8.2.3., 3.8.3.21. telephone shelves, 3.8.2.11., 3.8.3.20. universal washrooms, 3.8.2.8., 3.8.3.12. urinals, 3.8.2.8., 3.8.3.14.
vestibules, 3.8.3.6.
washrooms, 3.8.2.8., 3.8.3.9., 3.8.3.11., 3.8.3.15. water closets, 3.8.3.11., 3.8.3.13.
Barriers
across transparent panels, 3.3.1.19. preventing exit obstruction, 3.4.6.11., 9.9.11.2.
Basements
access, 3.2.5.2., 9.10.20.2.
ceiling height, 9.5.3.1.
crawl spaces considered as, 3.2.2.9., 9.10.8.9. definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
exit signs, 3.4.5.2.
fire containment, 3.2.1.5.
fire protection, 3.2.2.15., 9.10.1.3. fire-resistance of floor assemblies over, 3.2.1.4.
fire separations, 9.10.9.4., 9.10.9.14. heating requirements, 9.33.3.1. industrial occupancy (Group F), 3.3.5.3. insulation, 9.25.2.2.
large or multi-storey, 9.10.1.3.
lighting, 9.34.2.3., 9.34.2.4.
residential occupancy (Group C), 3.2.2.47. storage garages, 3.1.10.3., 3.2.1.2., 9.10.4.3. supply outlets, 9.33.6.11.
Bathroom accessories, 3.7.2.3., 3.7.2.9., 3.8.3.8., 3.8.3.11., 3.8.3.15., 3.8.3.17.
Bathrooms
(see also Washrooms) ceiling height, 9.5.3.1. doorways, 9.4.4.3. flame-spread rating, 3.1.13.3.
Bathtubs, 3.7.2.9., 3.8.3.17., 9.6.1.4. Beams
bearing, 9.23.8.1.
built-up, 9.23.4.2., 9.23.4.4., 9.23.8.3. dimensions, 9.23.4.1.
glued-laminated, 9.23.4.1., 9.23.4.2., 9.23.4.4. in heavy timber construction, 3.1.4.7.
lumber grade, 9.3.2.1.
preservative treatment, 9.23.2.2., 9.23.2.3. ridge, 9.23.14.8.
spans, 9.23.4.1., 9.23.4.2., 9.23.4.4.
spans, maximum, 9.23.4.
steel, 9.23.4.3., 9.23.8.2.
supported on masonry or concrete, 9.10.9.9.,
9.15.5., 9.20.8.3., 9.20.8.4., 9.21.5.3., 9.23.2.2.,
9.23.2.3.
to support floors, 9.23.8. wood, 9.23.4.2., 9.23.4.4.
Bearing surface, 1.4.1.2.[A] Bedrooms
means of egress, 9.9.10.1. mechanical ventilation, 9.32.2.3. natural ventilation, 9.32.2.2. windows, 9.9.10.1.
Bleachers
aisles, 3.3.2.5.
guards, 3.3.2.9. inspection, 4.1.5.12. load analysis, 4.1.5.12. locking, 4.1.5.12. seats, 3.3.2.5.
steps, 3.3.2.5., 3.3.2.12.
Blocking
cladding, 9.27.5.2.
cladding and interior finishing materials, 9.23.10.5. doors, 9.7.5.2.
with handrails, 9.8.7.7.
joists, 9.23.9.3., 9.23.9.4., 9.23.14.9.
nailing, 9.23.3.4.
in noncombustible construction, 3.1.5.2.
rafters and joints, 9.23.14.7.
roof edges, 9.23.16.6., 9.23.16.7.
subflooring, 9.23.15.3.
walls, 9.23.9.8., 9.23.10.2.
Boarding and lodging houses, 9.10.9.14.
Index National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Boiler rooms, 3.6.2.2., 9.10.10.4. Boilers
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
installation standard, 6.2.1.5. Bonding
intersecting masonry walls, 9.20.11.2.
masonry, 9.20.9.
Book shelves, 3.3.2.13.
Braced wall bands, 1.4.1.2.[A], 9.23.13.4., 9.23.13.5. Braced wall panels
anchorage, 9.23.6.1., 9.23.13.5. definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
fastening, 9.23.3.4., 9.23.3.5. gypsum board, 9.29.5.9.
lateral loads, 9.23.13.5., 9.23.13.6. plywood, 9.29.6.3.
and wall supports, 9.23.9.8.
Bracing, wood-frame walls, 9.23.13., 9.23.13.4.,
9.23.13.5. Breeching, 1.4.1.2.[A]
Bridging floor joists, 9.23.9.4. Builder (see Constructor) Building area
assembly occupancy (Group A, Division 1), 3.2.2.20.
assembly occupancy (Group A, Division 2), 3.2.2.23.
assembly occupancy (Group A, Division 3), 3.2.2.29.
business and personal services occupancy (Group D), 3.2.2.55.
care, treatment or detention occupancy (Group B Division 1), 3.2.2.36., 3.2.2.37.
care, treatment or detention occupancy (Group B Division 2), 3.2.2.38. - 3.2.2.41.
care, treatment or detention occupancy (Group B Division 3), 3.2.2.42. - 3.2.2.46.
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
determination, 1.3.3.4.[A]
determination of fire safety requirements, 3.2.2.5. high-hazard industrial occupancy (Group F,
Division 1), 3.2.2.70.
low-hazard industrial occupancy (Group F,
Division 3), 3.2.2.80.
medium-hazard industrial occupancy (Group F,
Division 2), 3.2.2.74.
mercantile occupancy (Group E), 3.2.2.64. residential occupancy (Group C), 3.2.2.47. self-service storage buildings, 3.9.2.1.
Building assemblies fire-resistance rating, 3.1.7.5.
Building classification
by major occupancy, 3.1.2.1., 9.10.2. for wind load calculations, 4.1.7.2.
Building, definition, 1.4.1.2.[A] Building height
access route design, 3.2.5.6.
assembly occupancy (Group A, Division 1),
3.2.2.20.
assembly occupancy (Group A, Division 2),
3.2.2.23.
assembly occupancy (Group A, Division 3), 3.2.2.29.
business and personal services occupancy (Group D), 3.2.2.55., 3.2.2.57., 3.2.2.58.
care, treatment or detention occupancy (Group B Division 1), 3.2.2.36., 3.2.2.37.
care, treatment or detention occupancy (Group B Division 2), 3.2.2.38. - 3.2.2.41.
care, treatment or detention occupancy (Group B Division 3), 3.2.2.42. - 3.2.2.46.
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
determination, 1.3.3.4.[A], 9.10.4.
determination of fire safety requirements, 3.2.2.5. exceptions, 3.2.1.1.
garages as separate buildings, 9.10.4.3. high-hazard industrial occupancy (Group F,
Division 1), 3.2.2.70.
low-hazard industrial occupancy (Group F,
Division 3), 3.2.2.80.
medium-hazard industrial occupancy (Group F,
Division 2), 3.2.2.74.
mercantile occupancy (Group E), 3.2.2.64. mezzanines excluded, 9.10.4.1. mezzanines included, 9.10.4.2.
residential occupancy (Group C), 3.2.2.47.,
3.2.2.50., 3.2.2.51.
roof-top enclosures excluded, 9.10.4.4.
Building services
barrier-free controls, 3.8.3.8.
emergency power supply, 3.2.7.9.
and fire alarm systems, 3.2.4.2.
and firewalls, 3.1.10.1.
penetrating fire separations and fire-rated
assemblies, 3.1.9.2., 9.10.9.6. Building size determination
application of Code, 1.3.3.4.[A] inclusions, 9.10.4.1.
relative to occupancy, 9.10.8.
Built-up roofing, 9.26.11.
Business and personal services occupancy (Group D)
classification, 3.1.2.1., 9.10.2.
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
emergency power for fire alarm systems, 3.2.7.8. emergency power for lighting, 3.2.7.4.
exit stairs, 9.9.4.7.
exposing building face, 9.10.14.5.
fire access route design, 3.2.5.6.
fire alarm systems, 3.2.4.1., 9.10.18.
fire protection, 3.2.2.55. - 3.2.2.63.
fire-resistance rating, 9.10.8.
fire safety within floor areas, 3.3.1. flame-spread rating, 9.10.17.
occupant load, 3.1.17.1.
sprinkler systems, 3.2.5.12.
washrooms, 3.7.2.
C
Cabinetry, around cooktops, 9.10.22.3.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Index
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Cables
in combustible construction, 3.1.4.3. elevator, 3.1.5.22.
in noncombustible construction, 3.1.5.21. penetrating fire separations, 3.1.9.3.
in plenums, 3.6.4.3.
Caissons (see Pile foundations) Calculations and analyses
heat, air and moisture transfer, 5.2.1.2., 5.2.1.3. HVAC equipment and systems, 6.2.1.1., 9.33.4.1. limit states design, 4.1.3.
snow, rain and ice load, 4.1.6.
structural, 2.2.4.5.[C], 4
wind load, 4.1.7., 5.2.1.3., 5.2.2.2. Canopies
fabrics, 3.1.16.1.
for vertically separated openings, 3.2.3.17. Capacity of exit, 3.4.3.2.
Carbon monoxide
alarms, 9.32.3.8., 9.32.3.9.
concentration, 6.3.1.4.
detectors, 6.3.1.4., 6.9.3.1., 9.32.3.8., 9.32.3.9.
Care, definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
Care, treatment or detention occupancy (Group B)
building classification, 3.1.2.1.
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
door hold-open devices, 3.1.8.14.
doorway width, 3.3.3.4.
electromagnetic locks, 3.4.6.17.
emergency lighting, 3.2.7.3.
emergency power supply, 3.2.7.6.
evaporative cooling towers, 6.3.2.15.
fire alarm systems, 3.2.4.1., 3.2.4.18.
fire protection, 3.2.2.36. - 3.2.2.46.
fire safety within floor areas, 3.3.1., 3.3.3., 3.3.3.1. location of smoke/fire dampers, 3.1.8.7. occupant load, 3.1.17.1.
ramp slope maximum, 3.4.6.7. self-closing door hardware, 3.1.8.13. sleeping room exits, 3.4.1.6.
smoke alarms, 3.2.4.20.
smoke detectors, 3.2.4.11.
sprinkler systems, 3.2.2.19., 3.2.5.12. visual alarm signals, 3.2.4.19.
Carpets, 3.1.13.1. Carports
(see also Garages)
columns, 9.35.4.2., 9.35.4.3.
concrete for floors, 9.3.1.6.
for dwelling units, 9.35.
spatial separation from other buildings, 9.10.14.4. walls, 9.35.4.1., 9.35.4.3.
Catch basins, 9.14.6.4. Caulking
(see also Sealants)
for ceramic wall tile, 9.29.10.5.
door frames, 9.20.13.11.
material standards, 9.29.10.5.
in noncombustible construction, 3.1.5.2. requirements, 9.27.4., 9.27.4.1.
sill plates, 9.23.7.2.
stucco, 9.28.1.5.
windows and frames, 9.7.6.2., 9.20.13.11. Cavity walls
corbelling, 9.20.12.2.
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
flashing, 9.20.13.5., 9.20.13.6. framing supported by, 9.20.8.2. height and thickness, 9.20.6.2. lateral support, 9.20.10.1.
mortar droppings, 9.20.13.10. precipitation protection, 9.27.2.2. tying, 9.20.9.4.
Ceiling membranes
fire-resistance rating, 3.6.4.3., 9.10.3.4.
fire stop flaps, 9.10.13.14.
openings in, 3.1.9.6., 9.10.5., 9.10.9.6., 9.10.9.7. suspended, 9.10.3.4.
Ceiling panels, factory-assembled, 3.1.5.7. Ceilings
air barrier systems, 9.25.3. assembly used as plenum, 3.1.9.7. in corridors, 3.1.13.6.
fastened to floor joists, 9.23.9.4. finish, 3.1.5.12., 9.29.
foamed plastics in, 9.10.17.10. framing, 9.23.14.
framing around openings, 9.23.14.2. height, 9.5.3.
joists, 9.23.14.1., 9.23.14.7.
thermal insulation, 9.25.1.1.
Cement, standards for, 9.3.1.2.
Central alarm and control facility, 3.2.4.22., 3.2.6.4.,
3.2.6.7. Ceramic tile
as flooring, 9.30.6.
installation, 9.29.10.1.
as interior finish, 9.29.10.
subfloor, 9.23.15.5.
underlay, 9.23.15.5., 9.30.2.1., 9.30.2.2.
Chases, 9.20.7.
Children’s custodial homes, 3.2.4.3. Chimneys
access ladders, 6.3.3.4.
bracing, 9.21.4.5.
caps, 9.21.4.6.
cleanouts, 9.21.4.7.
clearances, 6.3.3.1., 9.21.5., 9.25.3.3. concrete, 1.4.1.2.[A], 6.3.3.2., 9.21., 9.21.4.2.,
9.33.10.3.
construction, 9.21.4.
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
design of, 6.3.3.2., 9.20.2.3., 9.21., 9.33.10.3. earthquake loads and effects, 4.1.8.1. factory-built, 1.4.1.2.[A], 9.33.10.2.
fireplace, 9.21.2.4., 9.21.2.5.
flashing, 9.21.4.6., 9.21.4.10., 9.26.4.4., 9.26.4.6.,
9.26.4.8.
flues, 9.21.2., 9.21.4.4.
footings, 9.21.4.3.
fuel-fired appliances, 6.3.3.1., 9.33.10.1. incinerators, 9.10.10.5., 9.21.2.1.
Index
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 lateral stability, 9.21.4.5.
liners (see Liners, chimney)
masonry, 1.4.1.2.[A], 6.3.3.2., 9.21., 9.21.4.1.,
9.33.10.3.
metal, 6.3.3.3., 9.33.10.2. saddles, 9.26.4.8.
sealing, 9.21.5.2.
venting equipment, 6.3.1. walls, 9.21.1.2.
wall thickness, 9.21.4.8.
Chutes
linen, 3.6.3.3., 9.10.1.3. refuse, 3.6.3.3., 9.10.1.3. sprinklers, 3.6.3.3. venting, 3.6.3.3.
Cladding
attachment, 9.27.5.
for braced wall panels, 9.23.13.6.
combustible, 9.10.14.5., 9.10.15.5.
in combustible construction, 3.1.4.8.
exposing building face, 3.2.3.7.
fastening to steel studs, 9.24.1.4.
housing and small buildings, 9.27. installation, 5.6.1.2., 5.9.1.1., 9.27.2.4., 9.27.3.6.,
9.27.5.
interior, 3.1.13.1.
noncombustible, 3.1.4.8., 3.2.3.7., 3.2.3.9. in noncombustible construction, 3.1.5.5. protection against precipitation, 5.6. requirement for, 5.6.1.1., 9.27.2.1. sealing, 5.6.2.1., 9.27.3.6., 9.27.4.
on steel studs, 9.24.1.5.
support of, 9.20.5., 9.23.10.5., 9.24.3.4. waterproofing, 9.27.4.
wind loads, 4.1.7.5., 4.1.7.6., 4.1.7.12.
Cladding, clay tile, 9.23.4.5. Cladding, concrete
design, 9.20.6.6.
water absorption, 9.20.2.6. weight, 9.20.2.6.
Cladding, decorative, 3.1.5.24. Cladding, hardboard
clearances, 9.27.2.4., 9.27.9.5.
dimensions, 9.27.9.2.
housing and small buildings, 9.27.9. installation, 9.27.2.4., 9.27.3.6., 9.27.5., 9.27.9.3. material standards, 5.9.1.1., 9.27.9.1.
Cladding, lumber
dimensions, 9.27.6.2.
housing and small buildings, 9.27.6. installation, 5.9.1.1., 9.27.2.4., 9.27.3.6., 9.27.5. material standards, 5.9.1.1.
Cladding, masonry
bonding and tying, 9.20.9.
flashing, 9.20.13.
housing and small buildings, 9.20., 9.27.2.2. installation, 5.6.1.2.
material standards, 5.9.1.1.
mortar joints, 9.20.4.
support of, 9.20.5.
Cladding, metal
housing and small buildings, 9.27.11. installation, 5.9.1.1., 9.27.3.6., 9.27.5. material standards, 5.9.1.1., 9.27.11.1.
Cladding, OSB and waferboard
clearances, 9.27.2.4., 9.27.10.4.
dimensions, 9.27.10.2.
housing and small buildings, 9.27.10. installation, 9.27.2.4., 9.27.3.6., 9.27.5., 9.27.10.3.,
9.27.10.4.
material standards, 5.9.1.1., 9.27.10.1.
Cladding, plywood
dimensions, 9.27.8.2.
housing and small buildings, 9.27.8. installation, 9.27.2.4., 9.27.3.6., 9.27.5., 9.27.8.3. material standards, 5.9.1.1., 9.27.8.1.
sealing, 5.6.2.1., 9.27.8.3., 9.27.8.4.
Cladding, stone, 9.20.6.6. Cladding, vinyl
housing and small buildings, 9.27.12. installation, 9.27.5., 9.27.12.2. material standards, 5.9.1.1., 9.27.12.1.
Cladding, waferboard (see Cladding, OSB and waferboard)
Cladding, wood shingles and shakes grades, 9.27.7.1.
housing and small buildings, 9.27.7. material standards, 5.9.1.1., 9.27.7.1.
Classification of buildings/building parts by major occupancy, 3.1.2.1., 9.10.2. for wind load calculations, 4.1.7.2.
Clearances
(see also Headroom clearance)
attic or roof spaces, 9.19.1.3.
chimneys, 6.3.3.1., 9.21.5., 9.25.3.3.
cladding above ground, 9.27.2.4.
cladding to roof, 9.27.2.4.
combustible framing, 9.22.9.3.
combustible material, 6.3.2.6., 9.22.9., 9.33.6.8. cooktops, 9.10.22.1.
cooling towers, 6.3.2.15.
crawl spaces, 9.18.4.1.
door frames, 9.27.9.5., 9.27.10.4.
ducts, 6.3.2.6., 9.22.9.4., 9.33.6.8.
electric ranges, 9.10.22.1.
furnace plenums, 6.3.2.6., 9.33.6.8.
furnaces, 6.2.1.5., 9.33.5.2.
gas-fired ranges, 9.10.22.1.
gas vents, 9.25.3.3.
above ground, 9.15.4.6., 9.27.2.4.
handrails, 9.8.7.5.
hardboard siding, 9.27.9.5., 9.27.10.4.
heating and air-conditioning equipment, 6.2.1.5.,
9.33.5.2.
ovens, 9.10.22.1.
pipes, 6.7.1.2., 9.33.8.3.
propane ranges, 9.10.22.1.
siding above ground, 9.27.2.4.
siding to roof, 9.27.2.4.
smoke chambers, 9.22.9.3. solid-fuel-burning appliances, 9.33.5.3.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Index
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 solid-fuel fired appliances, 6.2.1.5. stucco from ground, 9.28.1.4. supply ducts, 6.3.2.6., 9.33.6.8. unit heaters, 6.4.2.1.
vented products of combustion, 6.3.3.1. window frames, 9.27.9.5., 9.27.10.4. wood-frame construction, 9.23.2.2. wood above ground, 9.3.2.9., 9.23.2.3.
Climatic data, 1.1.3. Closures
(see also Doors; Windows)
chutes, 3.6.3.3.
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
door latches, 3.1.8.15., 3.4.6.16., 9.10.13.9. elevator shaft openings, 3.2.6.5.
exterior wall openings, 3.2.3.5.
fire dampers, 9.10.13.13.
fire-protection rating, 3.1.8.4., 3.1.8.5., 9.10.13.1. in fire separations, 3.2.8.2., 3.3.3.5., 9.10.9.3.,
9.10.13., 9.10.13.8.
glass blocks, 3.1.8.16., 3.2.3.5., 9.10.13.7. hold-open devices, 3.1.8.14., 9.10.13.11. installation, 3.1.8.5., 9.10.13.1.
protection of exit facilities, 3.2.3.13. self-closing devices, 3.1.8.13., 3.4.6.13., 9.9.6.7.,
9.10.13.10., 9.10.13.15. temperature limits, 3.1.8.17. twenty-minute, 3.1.8.12. unprotected openings, 3.2.3.1. wired glass, 3.1.8.16., 3.2.3.5.
Cold weather requirements
concrete, 9.3.1.9.
excavations, 9.12.1.3.
gypsum board, 9.29.5.10.
HVAC systems and equipment, 6.2.1.6., 9.33.4.5. masonry, 9.20.14.
stucco, 9.28.6.1. Collar ties, 9.23.14.7. Columns
anchorage, 9.23.6.2., 9.35.4.3.
carports, 9.35.3.4., 9.35.4.2., 9.35.4.3. concrete, 9.17.6.
fire-resistance rating, 9.10.8.3.
garages, 9.35.4.2., 9.35.4.3.
heavy timber construction, 3.1.4.7.
housing and small buildings, 9.17.
lateral support, 9.17.2.2.
masonry, 9.17.5.
steel, 9.10.14.5., 9.10.15.5., 9.17.3.
supported on masonry or concrete, 9.20.8.4. wood, 9.10.14.5., 9.10.15.5., 9.17.4.
Combustible cladding, 3.2.3.7., 9.10.14.5., 9.10.15.2. Combustible construction
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
exterior cladding, 3.1.4.8. fire-retardant-treated wood in, 3.1.4.5., 3.1.4.8. foamed plastics in, 3.1.4.2., 9.10.17.10.
heavy timber in, 3.1.4.6., 3.1.4.7.
materials permitted, 3.1.4.1.
projections, 9.10.12.4., 9.10.14.5., 9.10.15.5. raceways in, 3.1.4.4.
supports, 3.1.8.2., 9.10.9.8.
wires and cables in, 3.1.4.3. Combustible content, 3.2.8.8. Combustible dusts
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
and fire hose nozzles, 3.2.5.11. Combustible fibres
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
storage building classification, 3.1.2.6. Combustible gases
compressed, indoor storage, 3.3.6.3.
storage, 3.3.6.2. Combustible liquids
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
storage, 3.3.2.16., 3.3.4.3.
storage and dispensing rooms, 3.3.6.4.
Combustible materials
clearances to ducts, 3.6.5.6., 6.3.2.6., 9.33.6.8.
in combustible construction, 3.1.4.1.
in noncombustible construction, 3.1.5.2., 3.1.5.6.,
9.10.6. storage, 3.3.6.2.
Combustible piping
drain, waste and vent, 3.1.9.5., 9.10.9.7.
in noncombustible construction, 3.1.5.19.
in sprinkler systems, 3.1.9.5., 3.2.5.13., 9.10.9.6. in vacuum cleaning systems, 3.1.9.5.
for water distribution, 3.1.9.5., 9.10.9.6.
Combustible projections
exposing building face, 3.2.3.6., 9.10.14.5., 9.10.15.5. at firewalls, 3.1.10.7.
limiting distance, 3.2.3.6.
soffit protection, 3.2.3.16., 9.10.12.4.
Combustible refuse storage, 3.6.2.5.
Combustion venting, 6.3.3.1., 9.32.3.8. Commercial cooking equipment, 3.3.1.2., 6.3.1.7.,
9.10.1.4., 9.10.13.13.
Communication, voice (see Voice communication
systems) Compatibility
fasteners for cladding, 9.27.5.5.
resistance to deterioration, 5.1.4.2. Compliance
definition, 1.2.1.1.[A] Concealed spaces
fire blocks in, 3.1.11.1., 3.1.11.3., 3.1.11.4., 3.1.11.5., 3.1.11.7., 9.10.16., 9.10.16.1.
above fire separations, 3.1.8.3.
fire separations in, 3.6.4.2., 3.6.4.3., 9.10.9.10. insulation, 3.1.11.2.
Concrete
admixtures, 9.3.1.8.
aggregate for, 9.3.1.1., 9.3.1.4., 9.3.1.7. cantilevered precast steps, 9.8.10.
cellular, 9.20.2.4.
chimneys, 1.4.1.2.[A], 6.3.3.2., 9.21., 9.33.10.3. cold weather requirements, 9.3.1.9. columns, 9.17.6.
dampproofing, 9.13.2.3., 9.13.2.4., 9.13.2.5. design, 4.2.3.5., 4.2.3.6., 9.3.1., 9.4.1.1.
flues, 9.21.
Index National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 foundations, 4.2.3.5., 4.2.3.6., 9.15.
joints, 9.15.4.9.
mixes, 9.3.1.7.
plain, reinforced and prestressed, 4.3.3., 9.3.1. roof tiles, 9.26.2.1., 9.26.17.
slabs, for floors-on-ground, 9.16.4., 9.25.2.3., 9.33.6.7.
stairs, 9.8.9.2., 9.8.10.
standards for, 9.3.1.1., 9.3.1.3. strength, compressive, 9.3.1.6. structural design basis, 4.3.3.1. sulphate-resistant, 9.3.1.3.
surface finish, 9.16.4.1.
as thermal barrier, 3.1.5.14., 3.1.5.15. topping, 9.16.4.2., 9.23.4.4.
water used in, 9.3.1.5.
Concrete block, 9.15.2.2., 9.17.5.1., 9.20.2.6. Condensation control
air barrier systems, 9.25.3.1. in exhaust ducts, 6.3.2.10. and heat transfer, 5.3.1.2. properties, 9.25.5.1.
scope of Code, 5.1.1.1.
thermal insulation, 9.25.2.1. vapour barrier properties, 5.5.1.2. vapour barriers, 9.25.4.3.
Conditioned space, 1.4.1.2.[A] Conflicting requirements, 1.5.1.2.[A] Connected buildings, 3.2.6.3. Construction
relative to occupancy, 9.10.8.
types, 9.10.6.
Constructor, definition, 1.4.1.2.[A] Contained use areas
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
doors and door hardware, 3.3.1.13., 3.4.6.11.,
3.4.6.16.
fire alarm systems, 3.2.4.1.
fire annunciators, 3.2.4.8.
fire separations, 3.3.3.7.
smoke detectors, 3.2.4.11.
sprinkler system requirements, 3.2.2.19.
Contaminated air
minimum distances of air intakes from, 6.3.2.9. movement, 3.2.6.2., 3.2.6.3.
removal, 6.3.1.6., 6.3.2.14.
Continental seating, 3.3.2.4. Controls
barrier-free, 3.8.2.6., 3.8.3.8., 3.8.3.10., 3.8.3.16., 3.8.3.17.
location, 3.8.3.8. operation, 3.8.3.8. temperature, 9.33.4.3.
Convalescent homes
fire alarm systems, 3.2.4.3.
Convectors, 9.33.7.1.
Cooking equipment, commercial, 3.3.1.2., 6.3.1.7.,
9.10.1.4., 9.10.13.13. Cooktops
(see also Stoves)
clearances, 9.10.22.1., 9.10.22.2.
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
fans, 9.32.3.11.
hoods, 9.32.3.11.
installation, 9.10.22.1., 9.33.5.3. protection around, 9.10.22.3.
Coolers, walk-in, 3.1.4.2., 3.1.5.7., 9.10.17.10. Cooling systems and equipment
installation, 6.6.1.1., 9.33.9.1.
structural movement, 4.1.8.18., 6.2.1.4., 9.33.4.7. system pressure, 6.2.1.3., 9.33.4.6.
Cooling towers and sections, 6.3.2.15. Corbelling, 9.15.4.8., 9.20.12. Cornices, 3.1.11.5.
Corridors
(see also Public areas; Public corridors)
access to exit, 3.3.2.6., 9.9.7.
assembly occupancy, 3.3.2.6.
care, treatment or detention occupancy, 3.3.3.3.,
3.3.3.5.
dead-end, 3.1.8.17., 3.3.1.9., 3.3.3.3., 3.3.4.4., 9.9.7.3. dimensions, 3.3.1.9., 9.9.5.2.
doors opening into, 3.3.1.11., 9.9.6.1.
emergency lighting, 3.2.7.3.
fire separations, 9.10.9.15.
flame-spread rating, 3.1.13.6.
illumination, 3.2.7.1., 3.2.7.3.
loads on floor or roof, 4.1.5.3., 4.1.5.4. obstructions, 3.3.1.9., 9.9.5.2., 9.9.5.3., 9.9.6.1. paired doors in, 3.3.3.3.
serving patients’ sleeping rooms, 3.3.3.5.
sliding glass partitions, 9.6.1.4.
smoke detectors, 3.2.4.11.
temperature rise and area limits exception, 3.1.8.19. transparent doors in, 3.3.1.19.
transparent panels in, 3.3.1.19.
width, 3.3.1.9., 9.9.3.3., 9.9.5.2.
width, in dwelling units, 9.5.4.1.
windows in, 3.3.1.19.
Corrosion protection
(see also Corrosion resistance) pipes, 9.31.2.2.
service water heaters, 9.31.6.3. steel beams, 9.23.8.2.
steel lintels, 9.20.5.2.
Corrosion resistance
(see also Corrosion protection)
ducts, 6.3.2.3., 9.33.6.2., 9.33.6.7.
elements in environmental separators, 5.1.4.2. fasteners for cladding, 9.27.5.5.
masonry connectors, 9.20.16.1.
plumbing, 9.31.2.2.
screens and grilles, 6.3.2.9., 9.32.3.13.
service water heaters, 9.31.6.3.
Counters
for service to the public, 3.8.3.1., 3.8.3.19. for telephones, 3.8.3.20.
Coverings
ducts, 3.6.5.4., 6.3.2.5., 9.33.6.4. pipes, 6.3.2.5.
Crack control joints, 9.15.4.9.
Cranes, loads due to, 4.1.3.2., 4.1.5.11.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 1
Index
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Crawl spaces
access, 3.6.4.6., 9.18.2.1., 9.18.4.1.
air barrier systems in, 9.18.1.3.
application of Code, 3.6.1.1.
clearance, 9.18.4.1.
drainage, 9.18.5.
fire blocks in, 3.1.11.1., 3.1.11.6.
fire resistance of floors over, 9.10.8.1., 9.10.9.4. fire separations, 3.3.1.4.
flame-spread rating, 9.18.7.1.
ground cover, 9.18.6.
heated, 9.13.4.2., 9.18.1.3., 9.33.3.1.
housing and small buildings, 9.18.
insulation, 9.18.1.3., 9.25.2.2., 9.25.2.3. regulated as basements, 3.2.2.9., 9.10.8.9. return-air inlets, 9.33.6.12.
supply outlets, 9.33.6.11.
unheated, 9.18.1.3.
vapour barrier in, 9.18.1.3.
ventilation, 6.3.1.2., 9.18.3.
as warm-air plenums, 9.18.7.1.
Curbs, repair and storage garages, 3.3.5.4., 9.8.8.4. Curtain walls (see Fenestration)
Curved roofs, snow and rain loads, 4.1.6.10. Cutting operations room, 3.3.1.25.
D
Dampers
(see also Fire dampers) access, 6.2.1.6., 9.33.4.4. adjustable, 9.33.6.9. fireplaces, 9.22.6.1.
Dampproofing
crawl spaces, 9.18.6.
floors, 9.23.2.3.
floors-on-ground, 9.13.2.1., 9.13.2.6.
foundations, 9.13.2.
installation, 9.13.2.4.
material standards, 5.9.1.1., 9.13.2.2.
preparation of surface, 9.13.2.3.
protection from groundwater, 5.7.3.4.
protection of interior finishes, 9.13.2.5., 9.20.13.9.,
9.23.2.3.
requirement for, 9.13.2.1. 9.19. Roof Spaces
9.19.1. Venting .......................................... 9-107
9.19.2. Access ........................................... 9-108
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022
 9.20. Masonry and Insulating Concrete Form Walls
Not In Contact with the
Ground
9.20.1. Application .................................... 9-108
9.20.2. Masonry Units .............................. 9-109
9.20.3. Mortar ............................................ 9-109
9.20.4. Mortar Joints ................................ 9-111
9.20.5. Masonry Support ......................... 9-111
9.20.6. Thickness and Height .................. 9-112
9.20.7. Chases and Recesses ................. 9-113
9.20.8. Support of Loads ......................... 9-113
9.20.9. Bonding and Tying ....................... 9-114
9.20.10. Lateral Support ............................ 9-116
9.20.11. Anchorage of Roofs, Floors and
Intersecting Walls ......................... 9-116
9.20.12. Corbelling ..................................... 9-117
9.20.13. Control of Rainwater
Penetration ................................... 9-118
9.20.14. Protection during Work ................ 9-119
9.20.15. Reinforcement for Earthquake
Resistance .................................... 9-120
9.20.16. Corrosion Resistance .................. 9-120
9.20.17. Above-Ground Flat Insulating
Concrete Form Walls .................... 9-120
9.21. Masonry and Concrete Chimneys and Flues
9.21.1. General .......................................... 9-122
9.21.2. Chimney Flues .............................. 9-123
9.21.3. Chimney Lining ............................ 9-124
9.21.4. Masonry and Concrete Chimney
Construction ................................. 9-125
9.21.5. Clearance from Combustible
Construction ................................. 9-127
9.22. Fireplaces
9.22.1. General .......................................... 9-127
9.22.2. Fireplace Liners ............................ 9-127
9.22.3. Fireplace Walls ............................. 9-128
9.22.4. Fire Chamber ................................ 9-128
9.22.5. Hearth ............................................ 9-128
9.22.6. Damper .......................................... 9-129
9.22.7. Smoke Chamber ........................... 9-129
9.22.8. Factory-Built Fireplaces .............. 9-129
9.22.9. Clearance of Combustible
Material .......................................... 9-129
9.22.10. Fireplace Inserts and
Hearth-Mounted Stoves ............... 9-130
9.23. Wood-Frame Construction
9.23.1. Application .................................... 9-130
9.23.2. General .......................................... 9-130
9.23.3. Fasteners ...................................... 9-131
9.23.4. Maximum Spans ........................... 9-134
9.23.5. Notching and Drilling .......... 

Holes Drilled in Framing Members
1) Holes drilled in roof, floor or ceiling framing members shall be not larger than one-quarter the depth of the member and shall be located not less than 50 mm from the edges, unless the depth of the member is increased by the size of the hole.
Notching of Framing Members
1) Floor, roof and ceiling framing members are permitted to be notched provided the notch is located on the top of the member within half the joist depth from the edge of bearing and is not deeper than one-third the joist depth, unless the depth of the member is increased by the size of the notch.
Wall Studs
1) Wall studs shall not be notched, drilled or otherwise damaged so that the undamaged portion of the stud is less than two-thirds the depth of the stud if the stud is loadbearing or 40 mm if the stud is non-loadbearing, unless the weakened studs are suitably reinforced.
Top Plates
1) Top plates in walls shall not be notched, drilled or otherwise weakened to reduce the undamaged width to less than 50 mm unless the weakened plates are suitably reinforced.
Roof Trusses
1) Roof truss members shall not be notched, drilled or otherwise weakened unless
such notching or drilling is allowed for in the design of the truss.
9.23.4.5.
9.23.5. 9.23.5.1.
9.23.5.2.
9.23.5.3.
9.23.5.4.
9.23.5.5.
9-136 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022
 Division B 9.23.6.1.
9.23.6. 9.23.6.1.
Anchorage
Anchorage of Building Frames
1) Except as required by Sentence 9.23.6.3.(1), building frames shall be anchored to the foundation unless a structural analysis of wind and earthquake pressures shows anchorage is not required.
2) Except as provided in Sentences (3) to (6), anchorage shall be provided by
a) embedding the ends of the first floor joists in concrete, or
b) fastening the sill plate to the foundation with not less than 12.7 mm diam
anchor bolts spaced not more than 2.4 m o.c.
3) For buildings with 2 or more floors supported by frame walls that are in areas where the seismic spectral response acceleration, Sa(0.2), is not greater than 0.70 or the 1-in-50 hourly wind pressure (HWP) is equal to or greater than 0.80 kPa but not greater than 1.20 kPa, anchorage shall be provided by fastening the sill plate to the foundation with not less than two anchor bolts per braced wall panel, where all anchor bolts used are
a) not less than 15.9 mm in diameter, located within 0.5 m of the end of the foundation, and spaced not more than 2.4 m o.c, or
b) not less than 12.7 mm in diameter, located within 0.5 m of the end of the foundation, and spaced not more than 1.7 m o.c.
4) For buildings supported by frame walls that are in areas where the seismic spectral response acceleration, Sa(0.2), is greater than 0.70 but not greater than 1.8 and the 1-in-50 hourly wind pressure (HWP) is not greater than 1.20 kPa, anchorage shall be provided by fastening the sill plate to the foundation with not less than two anchor bolts per braced wall panel located within 0.5 m of the end of the foundation and spaced in accordance with Table 9.23.6.1.
Table 9.23.6.1.
Anchor Bolt Spacing where the 1-in-50 HWP ≤ 1.20 kPa and 0.70 < Sa(0.2) ≤ 1.8 Forming Part of Sentence 9.23.6.1.(4)
Anchor Bolt Diameter, mm
12.7
15.9
Sa(0.2)
0.70 < Sa(0.2) ≤ 0.80
0.80 < Sa(0.2) ≤ 0.90 0.90 < Sa(0.2) ≤ 1.0 1.0 < Sa(0.2) ≤ 1.1 1.1 < Sa(0.2) ≤ 1.2 1.2 < Sa(0.2) ≤ 1.3 1.3 < Sa(0.2) ≤ 1.35 1.35 < Sa(0.2) ≤ 1.8 0.70 < Sa(0.2) ≤ 0.80 0.80 < Sa(0.2) ≤ 0.90 0.90 < Sa(0.2) ≤ 1.0 1.0 < Sa(0.2) ≤ 1.1 1.1 < Sa(0.2) ≤ 1.2 1.2 < Sa(0.2) ≤ 1.3 1.3 < Sa(0.2) ≤ 1.35 1.35 < Sa(0.2) ≤ 1.8
Maximum Spacing of Anchor Bolts Along Braced Wall Band, m
Light Construction Heavy Construction(1)
Number of Floors Supported(2) 12312
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Division B
9-137
2.4 2.3 1.8
2.4 2.3 1.8 2.4 2.2 1.5 2.4 2.1 1.4 2.4 2.0 1.3 2.4 1.9 1.3 2.4 1.8 1.2 2.4 1.8 1.1 2.4 2.4 2.2 2.4 2.4 2.2 2.4 2.4 2.1 2.4 2.4 1.9 2.4 2.4 1.9 2.4 2.4 1.8 2.4 2.3 1.7 2.4 2.2 1.6
2.4 2.0
2.4 2.0 2.4 1.8 2.4 1.6 2.4 1.5 2.4 1.5 2.3 1.4 2.3 1.4 2.4 2.4 2.4 2.4 2.4 2.3 2.4 2.3 2.4 2.2 2.4 2.1 2.4 2.0 2.4 1.9
                         © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 9.23.6.2.
Division B
Notes to Table 9.23.6.1.:
(1) See Note A-9.23.13.2.(1)(a)(i).
(2) All constructions include support of a roof load in addition to the indicated number of floors.
9.23.6.2.
5) Anchor bolts referred to in Sentences (2) to (4) shall be
a) fastened to the sill plate with nuts and washers,
b) embedded not less than 100 mm in the foundation, and
c) so designed that they may be tightened without withdrawing them from
the foundation.
6) Where the seismic spectral response acceleration, Sa(0.2), is greater than 1.8 or the 1-in-50 hourly wind pressure is equal to or greater than 1.2 kPa, anchorage shall be designed according to Part 4.
Anchorage of Columns and Posts
1) Except as provided in Sentences (2) and (3), exterior columns and posts shall be
anchored to resist uplift and lateral movement.
2) Except as provided in Sentence (3), where columns or posts support balconies, decks, verandas or other exterior platforms, and the distance from finished ground to the underside of the joists is not more than 600 mm,
a) the columns or posts shall be anchored to the foundation to resist uplift and lateral movement, or
b) the supported joists or beams shall be directly anchored to the ground to resist uplift.
3) Anchorage is not required for platforms described in Sentence (2) that
a) are not more than 1 storey in height,
b) are not more than 55 m2 in area,
c) do not support a roof, and
d) are not attached to another structure, unless it can be demonstrated that differential movement will not adversely affect the performance of the structure to which the platform is attached.
Anchorage of Smaller Buildings
1) Buildings not more than 4.3 m wide and not more than 1 storey in building height that are not anchored in accordance with Sentence 9.23.6.1.(1) shall be anchored in conformance with the requirements of CSA Z240.10.1, “Site Preparation, Foundation, and Installation of Buildings.”
Sill Plates
Size of Sill Plates
1) Where sill plates provide bearing for the floor system, they shall be not less than 38 mm by 89 mm material.
Levelling and Sealing of Sill Plates
1) Sill plates shall be
a) levelled by setting them on a full bed of mortar, or
b) laid directly on the foundation if the top of the foundation is level.
(See also Article 9.23.2.3.)
2) The joint between the sill plate for exterior walls and the foundation shall be sealed in accordance with Subsection 9.25.3.
9.23.6.3.
9.23.7. 9.23.7.1.
9.23.7.2.
9-138 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Table 9.23.6.1. (Continued)
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 9.23.9.2.
9.23.8. 9.23.8.1.
9.23.8.2.
9.23.8.3.
Beams to Support Floors Bearing for Beams
1) Beams shall have even and level bearing and the bearing at end supports shall be not less than 89 mm long, except as stated in the notes to Span Tables 9.23.4.2.-H to 9.23.4.2.-K.
Priming of Steel Beams
1) Exterior steel beams shall be shop primed.
Built-up Wood Beams
(See Note A-9.23.8.3.)
1) Where a beam is made up of individual pieces of lumber that are nailed together, the individual members shall be 38 mm or greater in thickness and installed on edge.
2) Except as permitted in Sentence (3), where individual members of a built-up beam are butted together to form a joint, the joint shall occur over a support.
3) Where a beam is continuous over more than one span, individual members are permitted to be butted together to form a joint at or within 150 mm of the end quarter points of the clear spans, provided the quarter points are not those closest to the ends of the beam.
4) Members joined at quarter points shall be continuous over adjacent supports.
5) Joints in individual members of a beam that are located at or near the end
quarter points shall not occur in adjacent members at the same quarter point and shall not reduce the effective beam width by more than half.
6) Not more than one butt joint shall occur in any individual member of a built-up beam within any one span.
7) Except as provided in Sentence (8), where 38 mm members are laid on edge to form a built-up beam, individual members shall be nailed together with a double row of nails not less than 89 mm in length, spaced not more than 450 mm apart in each row with the end nails located 100 mm to 150 mm from the end of each piece.
8) Where 38 mm members in built-up wood beams are not nailed together as provided in Sentence (7), they shall be bolted together with not less than 12.7 mm diam bolts equipped with washers and spaced not more than 1.2 m o.c., with the end bolts located not more than 600 mm from the ends of the members.
Floor Joists
End Bearing for Joists
1) Except when supported on ribbon boards, floor joists shall have not less than 38 mm length of end bearing.
2) Ribbon boards referred to in Sentence (1) shall be not less than 19 mm by 89 mm lumber let into the studs.
Joists Supported by Beams
1) Floor joists may be supported on the tops of beams or may be framed into
the sides of beams.
2) When framed into the side of a wood beam, joists referred to in Sentence (1) shall be supported on
a) joist hangers or other acceptable mechanical connectors, or
b) not less than 38 mm by 64 mm ledger strips nailed to the side of the beam,
except that 38 mm by 38 mm ledger strips may be used provided each joist is nailed to the beam by not less than four 89 mm nails, in addition to the nailing for the ledger strip required in Table 9.23.3.4.
9.23.9. 9.23.9.1.
9.23.9.2.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-139
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 9.23.9.3.
Division B
9.23.9.3.
9.23.9.4.
3) When framed into the side of a steel beam, joists referred to in Sentence (1) shall be supported on the bottom flange of the beam or on not less than 38 mm by 38 mm lumber bolted to the web with not less than 6.3 mm diam bolts spaced not more than 600 mm apart.
4) Joists referred to in Sentence (3) shall be spliced above the beam with not less than 38 mm by 38 mm lumber at least 600 mm long to support the flooring.
5) Not less than a 12 mm space shall be provided between the splice required in Sentence (4) and the beam to allow for shrinkage of the wood joists.
Restraint of Joist Bottoms
1) Except as provided in Sentence 9.23.9.4.(1), bottoms of floor joists shall be restrained from twisting at each end by toe-nailing to the supports, end-nailing to the header joists or by providing continuous strapping, blocking between the joists or cross-bridging near the supports.
Strapping, Bridging, Furring and Ceilings in Span Tables 9.23.4.2.-A and -B
(See Note A-9.23.4.2.(2).)
1) Except as permitted by Sentence (5), where strapping is specified in Span Table 9.23.4.2.-A, it shall be
a) not less than 19 mm by 64 mm, nailed to the underside of floor joists,
b) located not more than 2 100 mm from each support or other rows of
strapping, and
c) fastened at each end to a sill or header.
2) Where bridging is specified in Span Table 9.23.4.2.-A, it shall consist of not less than 19 mm by 64 mm or 38 mm by 38 mm cross bridging located not more than 2 100 mm from each support or other rows of bridging.
3) Where bridging and strapping are specified in Span Table 9.23.4.2.-A,
a) bridging shall
i) comply with Sentence (2), or
ii) consist of 38 mm solid blocking located not more than
2 100 mm from each support or other rows of bridging and
securely fastened between the joists, and
b) except as provided in Sentence (5), strapping shall comply with Sentence (1)
and be installed under the bridging.
4) Bridging specified in Span Table 9.23.4.2.-B shall consist of
a) bridging as described in Sentence (2), or
b) 38 mm solid blocking located not more than 2 100 mm from each support or
other rows of bridging and securely fastened between the joists.
5) Strapping described in Sentence (1) and Clause (3)(b) is not required where
a) furring strips complying with Table 9.29.3.1. are fastened directly to the
joists, or
b) a panel-type ceiling finish complying with Subsection 9.29.5., 9.29.6., 9.29.7.,
9.29.8., or 9.29.9. is attached directly to the joists.
6) Where a ceiling attached to wood furring is specified in Span Table 9.23.4.2.-B,
a) the ceiling finish shall consist of gypsum board, plywood or OSB not less
than 12.7 mm thick, and
b) the furring shall be
i) 19 mm by 89 mm wood furring spaced at not more than 600 mm o.c., or
ii) 19 mm by 64 mm wood furring spaced at not more than 400 mm o.c.
Header Joists
1) Header joists around floor openings shall be doubled when they exceed 1.2 m in length.
9.23.9.5.
9-140 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 9.23.10.1.
9.23.9.6.
9.23.9.7.
9.23.9.8.
2) The size of header joists exceeding 3.2 m in length shall be determined by calculations.
Trimmer Joists
1) Trimmer joists around floor openings shall be doubled when the length of
the header joist exceeds 800 mm.
2) When the header joist exceeds 2 m in length the size of the trimmer joists shall be determined by calculations.
Support of Tail and Header Joists
1) When tail joists and header joists are supported by the floor framing, they shall
be supported by suitable joist hangers or nailing in accordance with Table 9.23.3.4.
Support of Walls
1) Non-loadbearing walls parallel to the floor joists shall be supported by joists
beneath the wall or on blocking between the joists.
2) Blocking referred to in Sentence (1) for the support of non-loadbearing walls shall be
a) not less than 38 mm by 89 mm lumber, and
b) except as required for the fastening of walls constructed with required
braced wall panels, spaced not more than 1.2 m apart.
3) Except as provided in Sentence (6), non-loadbearing interior walls at right angles
to the floor joists are not restricted as to location.
4) Loadbearing interior walls parallel to floor joists shall be supported by beams or walls of sufficient strength to safely transfer the specified live loads to the vertical supports.
5) Unless the joist size is designed to support such loads, loadbearing interior walls at right angles to floor joists shall be located
a) not more than 900 mm from the joist support where the wall does not support a floor, and
b) not more than 600 mm from the joist support where the wall supports one or more floors.
6) Loadbearing and non-loadbearing walls constructed with required braced wall panels shall be continuously supported by floor joists, blocking or rim joists to allow for the required fastening (see Table 9.23.3.4.).
Cantilevered Floor Joists
1) Floor joists supporting roof loads shall not be cantilevered more than 400 mm beyond their supports where 38 mm by 184 mm joists are used and not more than 600 mm beyond their supports where 38 mm by 235 mm or larger joists are used.
2) The cantilevered portions referred to in Sentence (1) shall not support floor loads from other storeys unless calculations are provided to show that the design resistances of the cantilevered joists are not exceeded.
3) Where cantilevered floor joists described in Sentences (1) and (2) are at right angles to the main floor joists, the tail joists in the cantilevered portion shall extend inward away from the cantilever support a distance equal to not less than 6 times the length of the cantilever, and shall be end nailed to an interior doubled header joist in conformance with Table 9.23.3.4.
Wall Studs
Stud Size and Spacing
9.23.9.9.
9.23.10. 9.23.10.1.
1) The size and spacing of studs shall conform to Table 9.23.10.1.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-141
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 9.23.10.2.
Division B
Type of Wall
Interior
Supported Loads (including dead loads)
No load
Attic not accessible by a stairway
Attic accessible by a stairway plus one floor Roof load plus one floor
Attic not accessible by stairway plus 2 floors
Roof load
Attic accessible by a stairway
Attic not accessible by a stairway plus one floor
Attic accessible by a stairway plus 2 floors Roof load plus 2 floors
Attic accessible by a stairway plus 3 floors Roof load plus 3 floors
Roof with or without attic storage
Roof with or without attic storage plus one floor
Roof with or without attic storage plus 2 floors
Roof with or without attic storage plus 3 floors
Minimum Stud Size, mm
Maximum Stud Spacing, mm(1)
Maximum Unsupported Height, m
2.4 3.6 3.0 2.4 3.6 2.4
3.6
2.4 3.6
3.6 3.6 4.2
4.2
2.4 3.0 3.0 3.0 3.0 3.0 3.6 1.8
Exterior
38 x 38 400 38 x 89 flat(2) 400 38 x 64 600 38 x 64 flat(2) 400 38 x 89 600 38 x 89 flat(2) 400
38x89 400
38x64 400 38x89 600
38x89 300 64x89 400 38x140 400
38x140 300
38x64 400 38x89 600 38 x 89 400 38x140 600 38 x 89 300 64 x 89 400 38x140 400 38x140 300
Notes to Table 9.23.10.1.:
(1) See Note A-9.4.2.1.(1).
(2) See Article 9.23.10.3.
9.23.10.2.
9.23.10.3.
Bracing and Lateral Support
9-142 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Table 9.23.10.1.
Size and Spacing of Studs Forming Part of Sentence 9.23.10.1.(1)
1) Where loadbearing interior walls are not finished in accordance with Section 9.29., blocking or strapping shall be fastened to the studs at mid-height to prevent sideways buckling.
Orientation of Studs
1) Except as permitted in Sentences (2) and (3), all studs shall be placed at right
angles to the wall face.
2) Studs on the flat are permitted to be used in gable ends of roofs that contain only unfinished space or in non-loadbearing interior walls within the limits described in Article 9.23.10.1.
3) Wall studs that support only a load from an attic not accessible by a stairway are permitted to be placed on the flat within the limits permitted in Article 9.23.10.1. provided
a) b)
the studs are clad on not less than one side with plywood, OSB or waferboard sheathing fastened to the face of the studs with a structural adhesive, and
the portion of the roof supported by the studs does not exceed 2.1 m in width.
            © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 9.23.11.3.
9.23.10.4.
9.23.10.5.
9.23.10.6.
Continuity of Studs
1) Wall studs shall be continuous for the full storey height except at openings and shall not be spliced except by fingerjoining with a structural adhesive. (See Note A-9.23.10.4.(1).)
Support for Cladding, Sheathing and Finishing Materials
1) Corners and intersections shall be designed to provide adequate support for the vertical edges of interior finishes, sheathing and cladding materials, and in no instance shall exterior corners be framed with less than the equivalent of 2 studs.
2) Where the vertical edges of interior finishes at wall intersections are supported at vertical intervals by blocking or furring, the vertical distance between such supports shall not exceed the maximum distance between supports specified in Section 9.29.
Studs at Sides of Openings
1) Where the lintel spanning the opening is more than 3 m long, studs shall be tripled on each side of the opening so that
a) the two inner studs on each side extend from the bottom of the supported lintel to the top of the bottom wall plate, and
b) the outer stud on each side extends from the bottom of the top wall plate to the bottom wall plate.
2) Except as provided in Sentence (3), where the lintel spanning the opening is not more than 3 m long, studs shall be doubled on each side of the opening so that
a) the inner studs on each side extend from the bottom of the supported lintel to the top of the bottom wall plate, and
b) the outer stud on each side extends from the bottom of the top wall plate to the bottom wall plate.
3) Single studs are permitted to be used on either side of openings
a) in non-loadbearing interior walls not required to have fire-resistance ratings,
provided the studs extend from the top wall plate to the bottom wall plate, or
b) in loadbearing or non-loadbearing interior or exterior walls, provided
i) the opening is less than and within the required stud spacing, and
ii) no2suchopeningsoffullstud-spacewidtharelocatedin adjacent stud spaces.
(See Note A-9.23.10.6.(3).)
Wall Plates
Size of Wall Plates
1) Except as provided in Sentence (2), wall plates shall be
a) not less than 38 mm thick, and
b) not less than the required width of the wall studs.
2) In non-loadbearing walls and in loadbearing walls where the studs are located directly over framing members, the bottom wall plate is permitted to be 19 mm thick.
Bottom Wall Plates
1) A bottom wall plate shall be provided in all cases.
2) The bottom plate in exterior walls shall not project more than one-third the
plate width over the support.
Top Plates
1) Except as permitted in Sentences (2) to (4), at least 2 top plates shall be provided
in loadbearing walls.
2) A single top plate is permitted to be used in a section of a loadbearing wall
containing a lintel provided the top plate forms a tie across the lintel.
9.23.11. 9.23.11.1.
9.23.11.2.
9.23.11.3.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-143
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 9.23.11.4. Division B
9.23.11.4.
Sa(0.2)
3) A single top plate is permitted to be used in loadbearing walls where the concentrated loads from ceilings, floors and roofs are not more than 50 mm to one side of the supporting studs and in all non-loadbearing walls.
4) The top plates need not be provided in a section of loadbearing wall containing a lintel provided the lintel is tied to the adjacent wall section with not less than
a) 75 mm by 150 mm by 0.91 mm thick galvanized steel, or
b) 19 mm by 89 mm by 300 mm wood splice nailed to each wall section with
at least three 63 mm nails.
Joints in Top Plates
1) Joints in the top plates of loadbearing walls shall be staggered not less than
one stud spacing.
2) The top plates in loadbearing walls shall be lapped or otherwise tied at corners and intersecting walls in accordance with Sentence (4).
3) Joints in single top plates used with loadbearing walls shall be tied in accordance with Sentence (4).
4) Ties referred to in Sentences (2) and (3) shall be the equivalent of not less than 75 mm by 150 mm by 0.91 mm thick galvanized steel nailed to each wall with at least three 63 mm nails.
5) Where the seismic spectral response acceleration, Sa(0.2), is greater than 0.70 but not more than 1.8, doubled top plates in braced wall bands shall be fastened on each side of a splice with 76 mm long common steel wire nails or spiral nails in accordance with Table 9.23.11.4.
Table 9.23.11.4.
Fasteners in Doubled Top Plate Splice Connections in Braced Wall Bands where 0.70 < Sa(0.2) ≤ 1.8 Forming Part of Sentence 9.23.11.4.(5)
Minimum Number of Nails on Each Side of Doubled Top Plate Splice
Light Construction Heavy Construction(1)
Number of Supported Floors(2)
01201
0.70 < Sa(0.2) ≤ 0.80 2 0.80 < Sa(0.2) ≤ 0.90 2 0.90 < Sa(0.2) ≤ 1.0 3 1.0 < Sa(0.2) ≤ 1.1 3 1.1 < Sa(0.2) ≤ 1.2 3 1.2 < Sa(0.2) ≤ 1.3 3 1.3 < Sa(0.2) ≤ 1.35 4 1.35 < Sa(0.2) ≤ 1.8 4
Notes to Table 9.23.11.4.:
5 8 5 8 6 10 7 11 7 11 8 12 8 12 8 13
3 8
4 8
4 10
5 11
5 12 5 12 5 13 5 13
(1) See Note A-9.23.13.2.(1)(a)(i).
(2) All constructions include support of a roof load in addition to the number of floors indicated.
9.23.12. 9.23.12.1.
Framing over Openings Openings in Non-Loadbearing Walls
9-144 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
1) Except as provided in Sentence (2), openings in non-loadbearing walls shall be framed with not less than 38 mm material the same width as the studs, securely nailed to adjacent studs.
               © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 9.23.13.1.
9.23.12.2.
9.23.12.3.
2) Openings for doors in non-loadbearing walls required to be fire separations with a fire-resistance rating shall be framed with the equivalent of at least two 38 mm thick members that are the same width as the wall plates.
Openings in Loadbearing Walls
1) Openings in loadbearing walls greater than the required stud spacing shall be framed with lintels designed to carry the superimposed loads to adjacent studs. (See Note A-9.23.10.6.(3).)
2) Except as provided in Sentence 9.23.12.3.(2), where 2 or more members are used in lintels, they shall be fastened together with not less than 82 mm nails in a double row, with nails not more than 450 mm apart in each row.
3) Lintel members are permitted to be separated by filler pieces. Lintel Spans and Sizes
1) Spans and sizes of wood lintels shall conform to the spans shown in Span Tables 9.23.4.2.-L and 9.23.12.3.-A to 9.23.12.3.-D
a) for buildings of residential occupancy,
b) where the wall studs exceed 38 mm by 64 mm in size,
c) where the spans of supported joists do not exceed 4.9 m, and
d) where the spans of trusses do not exceed 9.8 m.
2) In loadbearing exterior and interior walls of 38 mm by 64 mm framing members, lintels shall consist of
a) 64 mm thick members on edge, or
b) 38 mm thick and 19 mm thick members fastened together with a double row
of nails not less than 63 mm long and spaced not more than 450 mm apart.
3) Lintels referred to in Sentence (2)
a) shall be not less than 50 mm greater in depth than those shown in Span
Tables 9.23.4.2.-L and 9.23.12.3.-A to 9.23.12.3.-D for the maximum spans
shown, and
b) shall not exceed 2.24 m in length.
Bracing to Resist Lateral Loads Due to Wind and Earthquake
(See Note A-9.23.13.)
Requirements for Low to Moderate Wind and Seismic Forces
(See Note A-9.23.13.1.)
1) This Article applies in locations where the seismic spectral response acceleration, Sa(0.2), is not more than 0.70 and the 1-in-50 hourly wind pressure is less than 0.80 kPa.
2) Bracing to resist lateral loads shall be designed and constructed as follows:
a) exterior walls shall be
i) clad with panel-type cladding in accordance with Section 9.27.,
ii) sheathed with plywood, OSB, waferboard, fibreboard, gypsum board or diagonal lumber sheathing complying with Subsection 9.23.17. and fastened in accordance with Table 9.23.3.5.-A, or
iii) finished on the interior with a panel-type material in accordance with the requirements of Section 9.29., or
b) in accordance with
i) Articles 9.23.13.4. to 9.23.13.7.,
ii) Part 4, or
iii) good engineering practice such as that provided in CWC
2014, “Engineering Guide for Wood Frame Construction.”
9.23.13.
9.23.13.1.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Amended Page Division B 9-145
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 9.23.13.2. Division B
9.23.13.2.
Requirements for High Wind and Seismic Forces
1) Except as provided in Article 9.23.13.1., this Article applies in locations where
a) the seismic spectral response acceleration, Sa(0.2), is greater than 0.70 but
not more than 1.8 and
i) the lowest exterior frame wall supports not more
than 1 floor in buildings of heavy construction (see
Note A-9.23.13.2.(1)(a)(i)), or
ii) the lowest exterior frame wall supports not more than 2
floors in other types of construction, and
b) the 1-in-50 hourly wind pressure is less than 1.20 kPa.
2) Bracing to resist lateral loads shall be designed and constructed in accordance with
a) Articles 9.23.13.4. to 9.23.13.7.,
b) Part 4, or
c) good engineering practice such as that provided in CWC 2014, “Engineering Guide for Wood Frame Construction.”
Requirements for Extreme Wind and Seismic Forces
1) Except as provided in Articles 9.23.13.1. and 9.23.13.2., this Article applies in locations where
a) the seismic spectral response acceleration, Sa(0.2), is
i) greater than 1.8,
ii) greaterthan0.70andthelowestexteriorframewallsupports more than 2 floors in buildings of light construction, or
iii) greaterthan0.70andthelowestexteriorframewallsupports more than 1 floor in buildings of heavy construction, or
b) the 1-in-50 hourly wind pressure is equal to or greater than 1.20 kPa.
2) Bracing to resist lateral loads shall be designed and constructed in accordance with
a) Part 4, or
b) good engineering practice such as that provided in CWC 2014, “Engineering
Guide for Wood Frame Construction.”
Braced Wall Bands
(See Note A-9.23.13.4.)
1) Braced wall bands shall
a) be full storey height,
b) be not more than 1.2 m wide,
c) lap at both ends with another braced wall band,
d) be aligned with braced wall bands on storeys above and below, and
e) conform to the spacing and dimensions given in Table 9.23.13.5.
2) The perimeter of the building shall be located within braced wall bands.
3) For split-level buildings, a braced wall band shall be located where there is a
change in floor level greater than the depth of one floor joist.
Braced Wall Panels in Braced Wall Bands
1) Except as provided in Sentences (2) to (5) and Article 9.23.13.7., braced wall panels shall
a) be located within braced wall bands,
b) extend, as applicable, from the top of the supporting footing, slab or
subfloor to the underside of the floor, ceiling or roof framing above, and
c) conform to the spacing and dimensions given in Table 9.23.13.5.
9.23.13.3.
9.23.13.4.
9.23.13.5.
9-146 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
9.23.13.5.
Table 9.23.13.5.
Spacing and Dimensions of Braced Wall Bands and Braced Wall Panels Forming Part of Sentences 9.23.13.4.(1) and 9.23.13.5.(1)
Description
Maximum distance between centre lines of adjacent braced wall bands measured from the furthest points between centres of the bands
Maximum distance between required braced wall panels measured from the edges of the panels
Maximum distance from the end of a braced wall band to the edge of the closest required braced wall panel
Minimum length of individual braced wall panels:
• panel located at the end of a braced wall band where the
braced wall panel connects to an intersecting braced wall panel
• panel not located at the end of a braced wall band or braced wall panel located at the end of a braced wall band where the braced wall panel does not connect to an intersecting braced wall panel
Minimum total length of all braced wall panels in a braced wall band • supporting 3 floors, light construction
• supporting 2 floors, heavy construction(4)
• supporting 2 floors, light construction
• supporting 1 floor, heavy construction(4) • supporting 1 floor, light construction
• not supporting a floor
Notes to Table 9.23.13.5.:
Spacing and Dimensions of Braced Wall Bands and Braced Wall Panels(1)(2)(3) Seismic and Wind Loads
(1) See Note A-Table 9.23.13.5.
(2) All constructions include support of a roof load in addition to the indicated number of floors.
(3) See Article 9.23.13.7. for alternative methods of compliance.
(4) See Sentence 9.23.13.3.(1) for overall limit on application to heavy construction.
2) In basements or crawl spaces where the perimeter foundation walls extend from the footings to the underside of the supported floor, braced wall bands constructed with braced wall panels shall be spaced not more than
a) 15 m from the perimeter foundation walls,
b) 15 m from interior foundation walls, and
c) 15 m from adjacent braced wall bands constructed with braced wall panels.
(See Note A-9.23.13.5.(2).)
3) Portions of the perimeter of a single open or enclosed space need not comply with Sentence (1), where
a) the roof of the space projects not more than
i) 3.5 m from the face of the framing of the nearest parallel
braced wall band, and
ii) halftheperpendicularplandimension,
b) that portion of the perimeter structure does not support a floor, and
c) the roof of the space is
i) integralwiththeroofoftherestofthebuildingwithframing members not more than 400 mm o.c., or
ii) constructedwithroofframingnotmorethan400mmo.c. fastened to the wall framing (see Table 9.23.3.4. and Article 9.23.9.1. for balloon framing).
(See Note A-9.23.13.5.(3).)
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Division B
9-147
0.70 < Sa(0.2) < 1.0
10.6 m
6.4 m 2.4 m
1.0 ≤ Sa(0.2) ≤ 1.8 or 0.80 ≤ HWP < 1.2 kPa
7.6 m
6.4 m 2.4 m
600 mm 750 mm
75% of length of braced wall band 75% of length of braced wall band 40% of length of braced wall band 40% of length of braced wall band 25% of length of braced wall band 25% of length of braced wall band
            © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 9.23.13.6. Division B
9.23.13.6.
4) Walls in detached garages and in accessory buildings serving a single dwelling unit, and the front wall of attached garages serving a single dwelling unit need not comply with Sentence (1) where these walls do not support a floor.
5) Braced wall panels in the braced wall band at the front of an attached garage serving a single dwelling unit need not comply with Sentence (1), provided
a) the maximum spacing between the front of the garage and the back wall of the garage does not exceed 7.6 m,
b) there is not more than one floor above the garage,
c) not less than 50% of the length of the back wall of the garage is constructed
of braced wall panels, and
d) not less than 25% of the length of the side walls is constructed of braced
wall panels.
Materials in Braced Wall Panels
1) Required braced wall panels shall be
a) clad with panel-type cladding complying with Section 9.27. and
Table 9.23.3.4.,
b) sheathed with plywood, OSB, waferboard or diagonal lumber sheathing
complying with Subsection 9.23.16. and Table 9.23.13.6., and fastened in
accordance with Article 9.23.3.5., or
c) finished on the interior with a panel-type material in accordance with the
requirements of Section 9.29. and Table 9.23.13.6.
Table 9.23.13.6.
Minimum Thicknesses of Cladding, Sheathing or Interior Finish for Braced Wall Panels Forming Part of Sentence 9.23.13.6.(1)
Minimum Thickness
Panel-Type Cladding, Sheathing or Interior Finish
Gypsum board interior finish(1)
Sheathing complying with CSA O325
OSB O-1 and O-2 grades Waferboard R-1 grade Plywood
Diagonal lumber
Notes to Table 9.23.13.6.:
(1) See Sentences (5) and (6).
Where Sa(0.2) ≤ 0.90
Where Sa(0.2) > 0.90
9-148 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
With supports 400 mm o.c.
12.7 mm
W16
11 mm 9.5 mm 11 mm 17 mm
With supports 600
15.9 mm
W24
12.5 mm 12.5 mm 12.5 mm 17 mm
mm o.c.
With supports 400 mm o.c.
12.7 mm
W16
11 mm n/a 11 mm n/a
With supports 600 mm o.c.
15.9 mm
W24
12.5 mm n/a 12.5 mm n/a
2) Except as provided in Sentence (3), required interior braced wall panels shall be
a) sheathed or finished on both sides with a wood-based material, or
b) finished on both sides with gypsum board.
3) Required interior braced wall panels of wood-based material may be sheathed on one side only, provided
a) the sheathing material is plywood, OSB or waferboard, and
b) the maximum spacing of fasteners along the edge is half of the maximum
spacing shown in Table 9.23.3.5.-B.
4) For stacked braced wall bands, where the construction of any one braced wall panel is required to be of a wood-based material, a wood-based material shall be installed in all the required braced wall panels in that braced wall band.
            © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 9.23.13.7.
9.23.13.7.
5) Gypsum board interior finish shall not be considered as an acceptable sheathing material to provide the required bracing in exterior walls. (See Note A-9.23.13.6.(5) and (6).)
6) At braced wall band spacing intervals of not more than 15 m, braced wall panels shall be constructed with OSB, plywood or diagonal lumber. (See Note A-9.23.13.6.(5) and (6).)
Additional System Considerations
1) Except as provided in Sentences (2) and (3), one exterior wall of the uppermost storey in each orthogonal direction may be set back from the exterior wall of the storey below, provided the adjacent interior braced wall band of the storey below the setback
a) is spaced not more than 10.6 m from the exterior wall of the storey below the setback wall,
b) consists of braced wall panels that are constructed of a wood-based material in conformance with Sentence 9.23.13.6.(2),
c) extends to the foundation, and
d) is not taken into consideration when providing braced wall panels constructed
of a wood-based material at spacing intervals of not more than 15 m as per Sentence 9.23.13.6.(6).
2) Where the exterior wall of the uppermost storey is set back from the exterior wall of the storey below, the roof and floor space supporting the setback wall shall be sheathed with a wood-based material between the exterior wall of the storey below the setback and the adjacent interior braced wall bands of the storey below the setback.
3) Where the exterior wall of the uppermost storey is set back from the exterior wall of the storey below, the exterior walls perpendicular to the setback wall shall
a) have their top plate connected with nails that are spaced at no greater than half the spacing required in Table 9.23.3.4., and
b) have their top plate splices fastened with twice the number of nails specified in Sentences 9.23.11.4.(4) and (5).
4) The maximum distance between adjacent required braced wall panels in a braced wall band, measured from the edge of the panels, may be increased to 7.3 m provided that, throughout the height of the building, the length of any braced wall panel within the braced wall band is not less than 1.2 m.
5) The maximum spacing between the centre lines of required braced wall bands given in Table 9.23.13.5. may be increased from 7.6 m to no more than 10.6 m, provided that the interior braced wall band whose spacing is being increased is replaced with
an interior braced wall band that
a) consists of braced wall panels that are constructed of a wood-based material in conformance with Sentence 9.23.13.6.(2),
b) extends to the foundation, and
c) is not taken into consideration when providing braced wall panels constructed
of a wood-based material at spacing intervals no greater than 15 m as per Sentence 9.23.13.6.(6).
6) For each orthogonal direction of the building, the length of required braced wall panels of one exterior wall given in Table 9.23.13.5. may be reduced from 40% to no less than 25% of the length of the braced wall band, provided an additional parallel and adjacent interior braced wall band is constructed that
a) is spaced not more than 10.6 m from the exterior wall,
b) consists of braced wall panels that are constructed of a wood-based material
in conformance with Sentence 9.23.13.6.(2) and whose lengths sum to no
less than 25% of the length of the braced wall band,
c) extends to the foundation, and
d) is not taken into consideration when providing braced wall panels constructed of a wood-based material at spacing intervals no greater than 15 m as per Sentence 9.23.13.6.(6).
7) Where the length of required braced wall panels of an exterior wall is reduced as described in Sentence (6), the ratio of the length of braced wall panels in the respective
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-149
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 9.23.14.1. Division B
9.23.14. 9.23.14.1.
9.23.14.2.
9.23.14.3.
9.23.14.4.
upper braced wall bands to the length of braced wall panels in the reduced exterior braced wall band shall not exceed 2.
Roof and Ceiling Framing Continuity of Rafters and Joists
1) Roof rafters and joists and ceiling joists shall be continuous or shall be spliced over vertical supports that extend to suitable bearing.
Framing around Openings
1) Roof and ceiling framing members shall be doubled on each side of openings
greater than 2 rafter or joist spacings wide.
End Bearing Length
1) The length of end bearing of joists and rafters shall be not less than 38 mm.
Location and Attachment of Rafters
1) Rafters shall be located directly opposite each other and tied together at the peak, or may be offset by their own thickness if nailed to a ridge board not less than 17.5 mm thick.
2) Except as permitted in Sentence (3), framing members shall be connected by gusset plates or nailing at the peak in conformance with Table 9.23.3.4.
3) Where the roof framing on opposite sides of the peak is assembled separately, such as in the case of factory-built houses, the roof framing on opposite sides is permitted to be fastened together with galvanized-steel strips not less than 200 mm by 75 mm by 0.41 mm thick spaced not more than 1.2 m apart and nailed at each end to the framing by at least two 63 mm nails.
Shaping of Rafters
1) Rafters shall be shaped at supports to provide even bearing surfaces and
supported directly above the exterior walls.
Hip and Valley Rafters
1) Hip and valley rafters shall be not less than 50 mm greater in depth than the
common rafters and not less than 38 mm thick, actual dimension.
Intermediate Support for Rafters and Joists
1) Ceiling joists and collar ties of not less than 38 mm by 89 mm lumber are permitted to be assumed to provide intermediate support to reduce the span for rafters and joists where the roof slope is 1 in 3 or greater.
2) Collar ties referred to in Sentence (1) more than 2.4 m long shall be laterally supported near their centres by not less than 19 mm by 89 mm continuous members at right angles to the collar ties.
3) Dwarf walls and struts are permitted to be used to provide intermediate support to reduce the span for rafters and joists.
4) When struts are used to provide intermediate support they shall be not less than 38 mm by 89 mm material extending from each rafter to a loadbearing wall at an angle of not less than 45° to the horizontal.
5) When dwarf walls are used for rafter support, they shall be framed in the same manner as loadbearing walls and securely fastened top and bottom to the roof and ceiling framing to prevent over-all movement.
6) Solid blocking shall be installed between floor joists beneath dwarf walls referred to in Sentence (5) that enclose finished rooms.
9.23.14.5.
9.23.14.6.
9.23.14.7.
9-150 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 9.23.14.8.
9.23.14.8.
Ridge Support
1) Except as provided in Sentence (4), roof rafters and joists shall be supported at the ridge of the roof by
a) a loadbearing wall extending from the ridge to suitable bearing, or
b) a ridge beam supported by not less than 89 mm length of bearing.
2) Except as provided in Sentence (3), the ridge beam referred to in Sentence (1) shall conform to the sizes and spans shown in Span Table 9.23.4.2.-L, provided
a) the supported rafter or joist length does not exceed 4.9 m, and
b) the roof does not support any concentrated loads.
3) The ridge beam referred to in Sentence (1) need not comply with Sentence (2) where
a) the beam is of not less than 38 mm by 140 mm material, and
b) the beam is supported at intervals not exceeding 1.2 m by not less than
38 mm by 89 mm members extending vertically from the ridge to suitable bearing.
4) When the roof slope is 1 in 3 or more, ridge support need not be provided when the lower ends of the rafters are adequately tied to prevent outward movement.
5) Ties required in Sentence (4) are permitted to consist of tie rods or ceiling joists forming a continuous tie for opposing rafters and nailed in accordance with Table 9.23.14.8.
Roof Slope
1 in 3
1 in 2.4 1 in 2
1 in 1.71 1 in 1.33 1 in 1
Rafter Spacing, mm
  400
  600
  400
  600
  400
  600
  400
  600
  400
  600
  400
  600
Building Width up to 8 m
Roof Snow Load, kPa
1.0 or 1.5 2.0 or less more
Building Width up to 9.8 m
Roof Snow Load, kPa
1.0 or 1.5 2.0 or less more
Building Width up to 8 m Roof Snow Load, kPa
Building Width up to 9.8 m
Roof Snow Load, kPa
1.0 or 1.5 2.0 or less more
Table 9.23.14.8.
Rafter-to-Joist Nailing (Unsupported Ridge) Forming Part of Sentences 9.23.14.8.(5) and (6)
Minimum Number of Nails not less than 76 mm Long
Rafter Tied to every Joist
Rafter Tied to Joist every 1.2 m
————— 6 8 9 8 — — 11 — — — — —
4 4 5 5 6 7 7 10 — 9 — —
————
—— —— 9 11 9 11 6 7 6 7 4 5 4 5
4 5 6 5 7 8 11
5 7 8 7 9 11 7 10
4 4 4 4 4 5 6 8 9 8 4 5 6 5 7 8 6 8 9 8 4 4 4 4 4 4 5 7 8 7 4 4 5 5 6 7 5 7 8 7 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 5 6 5 4 4 4 4 4 5 4 5 6 5 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4
Ceiling joists referred to in Sentence (5) shall be fastened together with at least one more nail per joist splice than required for the rafter to joist connection shown
in Table 9.23.14.8.
7) Members referred to in Sentence (6) are permitted to be fastened together either directly or through a gusset plate.
6)
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-151
1.0 or less
1.5 2.0 or more
            © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 9.23.14.9. Division B
9.23.14.9.
9.23.14.10.
9.23.14.11.
Restraint of Joist Bottoms
1) Roof joists supporting a finished ceiling, other than plywood, OSB or waferboard, shall be restrained from twisting along the bottom edges by means of furring, blocking, cross bridging or strapping conforming to Article 9.23.9.3.
Ceiling Joists Supporting Roof Load
1) Except as permitted in Sentence (2), ceiling joists supporting part of the roof load from the rafters shall be not less than 25 mm greater in depth than required for ceiling joists not supporting part of the roof load.
2) When the roof slope is 1 in 4 or less, the ceiling joist sizes referred to in Sentence (1) shall be determined from Span Tables 9.23.4.2.-C to 9.23.4.2.-F and 9.23.4.2.-L for roof joists.
9-152 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Truss Span
4.3 m or less Over 4.3 m
Table 9.23.14.11.
Maximum Roof Truss Deflections Forming Part of Sentence 9.23.14.11.(1)
Type of Ceiling
Plaster or gypsum board Other than plaster or gypsum board Plaster or gypsum board Other than plaster or gypsum board
Maximum Deflection
1/360 of the span 1/180 of the span 1/360 of the span 1/240 of the span
Roof 1)
a) b)
Trusses
Roof trusses which are not designed in accordance with Part 4 shall
be capable of supporting a total ceiling load (dead load plus live load ) of 0.35 kPa plus two and two-thirds times the specified live roof load for 24 h, and
not exceed the deflections shown in Table 9.23.14.11. when loaded with the ceiling load plus one and one-third times the specified roof snow load for 1 h.
The joint connections used in trusses described in Sentence (1) shall be designed in conformance with the requirements in Subsection 4.3.1. (See Note A-9.23.14.11.(2).)
3) Where the length of compression web members in roof trusses described in Sentence (1) exceeds 1.83 m, such web members shall be provided with continuous bracing to prevent buckling.
4) Bracing required in Sentence (3) shall consist of not less than 19 mm by 89 mm lumber nailed at right angles to the web members near their centres with at least two 63 mm nails for each member.
5) Where the ability of a truss design to satisfy the requirements of Sentence (1) is demonstrated by testing, it shall consist of a full scale load test carried out in conformance with CSA S307-M, “Load Test Procedure for Wood Roof Trusses for Houses and Small Buildings.”
6) Where the ability of a truss design to satisfy the requirements of Sentence (1) is demonstrated by analysis, it shall be carried out in accordance with good engineering practice such as that described in TPIC 2014, “Truss Design Procedures and Specifications for Light Metal Plate Connected Wood Trusses (Limit States Design).”
2)
      © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 9.23.15.5.
9.23.15. 9.23.15.1.
9.23.15.2.
Subflooring Subflooring Required
1) Subflooring shall be provided beneath finish flooring where the finish flooring does not have adequate strength to support the specified live loads (see Subsection 9.30.3.).
Material Standards
1) Except as provided in Sentence (2), wood-based panels for subfloors shall conform to
a) CSA O121, “Douglas Fir Plywood,”
b) CSA O151, “Canadian Softwood Plywood,”
c) CSA O153, “Poplar Plywood,”
d) CSA O325, “Construction Sheathing,” or
e) CSA O437.0, “OSB and Waferboard.”
2) Particleboard subflooring may be used only where a building is constructed in a factory so that the subfloor will not be exposed to the weather.
3) Subflooring described in Sentence (2) shall conform to grade D-2 or D-3 in ANSI A208.1, “Particleboard.”
4) Subflooring described in Sentence (2) shall have its upper surface and all edges treated to restrict water absorption, where the subfloor is used in bathrooms, kitchens, laundry rooms or other areas subject to periodic wetting. (See Note A-9.23.15.2.(4).)
Edge Support
1) Where the edges of panel-type subflooring are required to be supported (see Sentence 9.30.2.1.(2)), such support shall consist of tongue-and-groove panel edges or not less than 38 mm by 38 mm blocking securely nailed between framing members.
Direction of Installation
1) Plywood subflooring shall be installed with the surface grain at right angles to
the joists and with joints parallel to floor joists staggered.
2) OSB subflooring conforming to CSA O325, “Construction Sheathing,” or to O-1 and O-2 grades in CSA O437.0, “OSB and Waferboard,” and waferboard subflooring conforming to R-1 grade in CSA O437.0 shall be installed so that the direction of face orientation is at right angles to the joists and the joints parallel to the floor joists are staggered. (See Note A-9.23.15.4.(2).)
Subfloor Thickness or Rating
1) Except as provided in Sentences (2) and (3), subfloors shall conform to either
9.23.15.3.
9.23.15.4.
9.23.15.5.
Maximum Spacing of Supports, mm
400 500 600
Minimum Thickness, mm
Table 9.23.15.5.-A or 9.23.15.5.-B.
Table 9.23.15.5.-A
Thickness of Subflooring
Forming Part of Sentences 9.23.15.5.(1) and 9.23.16.7.(1)
Plywood and OSB, O-2 Grade
15.5 15.5 18.5
OSB, O-1 Grade, and Waferboard, R-1 Grade
Particleboard
Lumber
17.0 19.0 19.0
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Division B
9-153
15.9 15.9 15.9 19.0 19.0 25.4
    © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 9.23.15.6.
Division B
Maximum Spacing of Supports, mm
Panel Mark
9.23.15.6.
9.23.15.7.
9.23.16. 9.23.16.1.
9.23.16.2.
9-154 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Table 9.23.15.5.-B
Rating for Subfloor when Applying CSA O325 Forming Part of Sentences 9.23.15.5.(1) and 9.23.16.7.(1)
400 1F16 500 1F20 600 1F24
Subfloor
Used with Panel-Type Underlay
2F16 2F20 2F24
Where the finished flooring consists of not less than 19 mm matched wood strip flooring laid at right angles to joists spaced not more than 600 mm o.c., subflooring shall be permitted to consist of not less than
a) 12.5 mm thick plywood,
b) 12.5 mm thick OSB conforming to O-2 grade,
c) 12.7 mm thick OSB conforming to O-1 grade,
d) 12.7 mm thick waferboard conforming to R-1 grade, or
e) OSB conforming to 2R32/2F16 grade.
3) Except where the flooring consists of ceramic tiles applied with adhesive, where a separate panel-type underlay or concrete topping is applied to a subfloor on joists spaced not more than 400 mm o.c., the subfloor is permitted to consist of not less than
a) 12.5 mm thick plywood,
b) 12.5 mm thick OSB conforming to O-2 grade,
c) 12.7 mm thick OSB conforming to O-1 grade,
d) 12.7 mm thick waferboard conforming to R-1 grade, or
e) OSB conforming to 2R32/2F16 grade.
Annular Grooved Nails
1) When resilient flooring is applied directly to an OSB, waferboard, particleboard or plywood subfloor, the subfloor shall be fastened to the supports with annular grooved nails.
Lumber Subflooring
1) Lumber subflooring shall be laid at an angle of not less than 45° to the joists.
2) Lumber subflooring shall be fully supported at the ends on solid bearing.
3) Lumber for subflooring shall be of uniform thickness and not more than
184 mm wide.
Roof Sheathing Required Roof Sheathing
1) Except where the 1-in-50 hourly wind pressure is less than 0.8 kPa and the seismic spectral response acceleration, Sa(0.2), is less than or equal to 0.70, continuous lumber or panel-type roof sheathing shall be installed to support the roofing.
Material Standards
1) Wood-based panels used for roof sheathing shall conform to the requirements of
a) CSA O121, “Douglas Fir Plywood,”
b) CSA O151, “Canadian Softwood Plywood,”
c) CSA O153, “Poplar Plywood,”
d) CSA O325, “Construction Sheathing,” or
e) CSA O437.0, “OSB and Waferboard.”
2)
    © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 9.23.16.7.
9.23.16.3.
9.23.16.4.
Direction of Installation
1) Plywood roof sheathing shall be installed with the surface grain at right angles
to the roof framing.
2) OSB roof sheathing conforming to CSA O325, “Construction Sheathing,” or to O-1 and O-2 grades as specified in CSA O437.0, “OSB and Waferboard,” shall be installed with the direction of face orientation at right angles to the roof framing members. (See Note A-9.23.15.4.(2).)
Joints in Panel-Type Sheathing
1) Panel-type sheathing board shall be applied so that joints perpendicular to the roof ridge are staggered where
a) the sheathing is applied with the surface grain parallel to the roof ridge, and
b) the thickness of the sheathing is such that the edges are required to be
supported.
2) A gap of not less than 2 mm shall be left between sheets of plywood, OSB or waferboard.
Lumber Roof Sheathing
1) Lumber roof sheathing shall not be more than 286 mm wide and shall be
applied so that all ends are supported with end joints staggered.
2) Lumber roof sheathing shall be installed diagonally, where
a) the seismic spectral response acceleration, Sa(0.2), is greater than 0.70 but
not greater than 1.2, or
b) the 1-in-50 hourly wind pressure is equal to or greater than 0.80 kPa but
less than 1.20 kPa.
3) Lumber roof sheathing shall be designed according to Part 4, where
a) the seismic spectral response acceleration, Sa(0.2), is greater than 1.2, or
b) the 1-in-50 hourly wind pressure is equal to or greater than 1.20 kPa.
Edge Support
1) Where panel-type roof sheathing requires edge support, the support shall consist of metal H clips or not less than 38 mm by 38 mm blocking securely nailed between framing members.
Thickness or Rating
1) The thickness or rating of roof sheathing on a flat roof used as a walking deck
shall conform to either Table 9.23.15.5.-A or Table 9.23.15.5.-B for subfloors.
2) The thickness or rating of roof sheathing on a roof not used as a walking deck shall conform to either Table 9.23.16.7.-A or Table 9.23.16.7.-B.
3) Asphalt-coated or asphalt-impregnated fibreboard not less than 11.1 mm thick conforming to CAN/ULC-S706.1, “Wood Fibre Insulating Boards for Buildings,” is permitted to be used as a roof sheathing over supports spaced not more than 400 mm o.c. provided the roofing consists of
a) a continuous sheet of galvanized steel not less than 0.33 mm in thickness, or
b) a continuous sheet of aluminum not less than 0.61 mm in thickness.
4) All edges of sheathing described in Sentence (3) shall be supported by blocking or framing.
9.23.16.5.
9.23.16.6.
9.23.16.7.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-155
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 9.23.17.1.
Division B
Maximum Spacing of Supports, mm
300 400 600
Plywood, and OSB, O-2 Grade
Minimum Thickness, mm
OSB, O-1 Grade, and Waferboard, R-1 Grade
Lumber
Maximum Spacing of Supports, mm
Panel Mark
9.23.17. 9.23.17.1.
9.23.17.2.
1) Exterior walls and gable ends shall be sheathed when the exterior cladding requires intermediate fastening between supports or if the exterior cladding requires solid backing.
Thickness, Rating and Material Standards
1) Where wall sheathing is required for the purpose of complying with this Section,
it shall conform to either Table 9.23.17.2.-A or 9.23.17.2.-B. (See also Article 9.25.5.1.)
Edges Supported
7.5 7.5 9.5
Edges Unsupported
7.5
9.5 12.5
Edges Supported
9.5
9.5 11.1
Edges Unsupported
400 500 600
Wall Sheathing Required Sheathing
Edges Supported
2R16 2R20 2R24
Type of Sheathing
With Supports 400 mm o.c.
9.5
9.5
17.0 17.0
Material Standards
CAN/ULC-S706.1
ASTM C 1177/C 1177M ASTM C 1396/C 1396M(2)
See Table 9.3.2.1. CAN/ULC-S702 CSA O437.0
CSA O437.0 CAN/CGSB-51.25-M CSA O121
CSA O151 CSA O153
CAN/ULC-S701.1 CAN/ULC-S701.1 CAN/ULC-S704 CAN/ULC-S704
Fibreboard (insulating) Gypsum sheathing
Lumber
Mineral Fibre, Rigid Board, Type 2
OSB, O-2 Grade
OSB, O-1 Grade, and Waferboard, R-1 Grade Phenolic, faced
Plywood (exterior type)
Polystyrene, Types 1 and 2
Polystyrene, Types 3 and 4
Polyurethane and Polyisocyanurate Type 1, faced Polyurethane and Polyisocyanurate Types 2 and 3, faced
With Supports 600 mm o.c.
11.1
Table 9.23.16.7.-A Thickness of Roof Sheathing Forming Part of Sentence 9.23.16.7.(2)
Table 9.23.16.7.-B
Rating for Roof Sheathing When Applying CSA O325 Forming Part of Sentence 9.23.16.7.(2)
9.5 17.0 11.1 17.0 12.7 19.0
Edges Unsupported
1R16 1R20 1R24
Table 9.23.17.2.-A
Wall Sheathing Thickness and Specifications Forming Part of Sentence 9.23.17.2.(1)
Minimum Thickness, mm(1)
25 6.0 6.35 25
6.0
38 25 38 25
25 7.5 7.9 25
7.5
38 25 38 25
9-156 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
12.7
                 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
9.24.1.3.
Notes to Table 9.23.17.2.-A:
9.23.17.3.
9.23.17.4.
9.23.17.5.
9.23.17.6.
Attachment of Cladding to Sheathing
1) Gypsum sheathing, rigid insulation and fibreboard shall not be used for the
attachment of cladding materials.
Lumber Sheathing
1) Lumber wall sheathing shall be applied so that all ends are supported.
2) Where lumber wall sheathing is required to provide bracing according to
Article 9.23.10.2., it shall be applied with end joints staggered.
Joints in Panel-Type Sheathing
1) A gap of not less than 2 mm shall be left between sheets of plywood, OSB,
waferboard or fibreboard.
Mansard Style Roofs
1) Where the bottom portions of mansard style roofs are vented, the vertical framing members behind the sloping portions shall be considered on the same basis as exterior wall studs and shall conform to Articles 9.27.3.2. to 9.27.3.6.
Table 9.23.17.2.-A (Continued)
(1) See also Sentences 9.27.5.1.(2) to (4).
(2) The flame-spread rating of gypsum board shall be determined in accordance with CAN/ULC-S102, “Test for Surface Burning Characteristics
of Building Materials and Assemblies.”
Table 9.23.17.2.-B
Rating for Wall Sheathing when Applying CSA O325 Forming Part of Sentence 9.23.17.2.(1)
Maximum Spacing of Supports, mm
400 500 600
Panel Mark
W16 W20 W24
Section 9.24. Sheet Steel Stud Wall Framing
9.24.1. 9.24.1.1.
9.24.1.2.
9.24.1.3.
General Application
1) This Section applies to sheet steel studs for use in non-loadbearing exterior and interior walls.
2) Where loadbearing steel studs are used, they shall be designed in conformance with Part 4.
Material Standards
1) Steel studs and runners shall conform to AISI S201, “North American Standard
for Cold-Formed Steel Framing - Product Data.”
Metal Thickness
1) Metal thickness specified in this Section shall be the minimum base steel
thickness exclusive of coatings.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-157
   © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 9.24.1.4.
Division B
9.24.1.4.
9.24.1.5.
9.24.2. 9.24.2.1.
Screws
1) Screws for the application of cladding, sheathing or interior finish materials to steel studs, runners and furring channels shall conform to
a) ASTM C 954, “Steel Drill Screws for the Application of Gypsum Panel Products or Metal Plaster Bases to Steel Studs from 0.033 in. (0.84 mm) to 0.112 in. (2.84 mm) in Thickness,” or
b) ASTM C 1002, “Steel Self-Piercing Tapping Screws for the Application of Gypsum Panel Products or Metal Plaster Bases to Wood Studs or Steel Studs.”
Cladding, Sheathing and Interior Finish Required
1) Cladding or sheathing, and interior finish shall be installed on steel stud framing and shall be fastened with screws
a) spaced at the appropriate spacing described in Section 9.29., and
b) penetrating not less than 10 mm through the metal.
Size of Framing
Size and Spacing of Studs in Interior Walls
1) Except as required in Articles 9.24.2.3. and 9.24.2.4., the size and spacing of steel studs for non-loadbearing interior walls shall conform to Table 9.24.2.1.
Table 9.24.2.1.
Steel Studs for Non-Loadbearing Interior Walls(1) Forming Part of Sentence 9.24.2.1.(1)
Maximum Stud Spacing, mm
                                         400
                                         600
                                         300
                                         400
                                         600
                                         300
                                         400
                                         600
                                         300
                                         400
                                         600
Minimum Stud Size, mm
32 × 41
32 × 64
32 × 89
32 × 152
Notes to Table 9.24.2.1.:
Maximum Wall Height, m
3.0 2.7 4.4 4.0 3.5 5.2 4.6 3.9 6.6 5.8 4.9
(1) The values in the Table are based on a single layer of 12.7 mm gypsum panel sheathing installed on each side of the studs. Where one side is not accessible, gypsum panels on only one side will suffice. The values are also based on attaching gypsum panel sheathing using screws not smaller than No. 6 spaced at a maximum of 300 mm at edges and at intermediate supports.
9.24.2.2.
9.24.2.3.
Thickness of Studs
1) Except as required in Article 9.24.2.4., steel studs in non-loadbearing interior
walls shall have a metal thickness of not less than 0.46 mm.
Runners
1) Runners for interior and exterior non-loadbearing walls shall have a thickness not less than the thickness of the corresponding studs and shall have not less than 30 mm flanges.
9-158 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
      © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 9.24.3.2.
9.24.2.4.
Openings in Fire Separations
1) Where openings for doors in non-loadbearing fire separations required to have a fire-resistance rating do not exceed 1 200 mm in width,
a) the width of steel studs shall be not less than 63 mm, and
b) the metal thickness shall be not less than 0.46 mm.
2) Where openings described in Sentence (1) exceed 1 200 mm in width,
a) the width of steel studs shall be not less than 91 mm, and
b) the metal thickness shall be not less than 0.85 mm.
3) The distance to the first stud beyond the jamb of any door opening in a fire separation required to have a fire-resistance rating shall not exceed 400 mm.
4) Where the distance between the framing over the opening referred to in Sentence (3) and the top runner exceeds 400 mm in such walls, intermediate support shall be installed at intervals of not more than 400 mm above the opening.
Size and Spacing of Studs in Exterior Walls
1) The size and spacing of non-loadbearing steel studs for exterior walls shall
9.24.2.5.
conform to Table 9.24.2.5.
Table 9.24.2.5.
Size and Spacing of Steel Studs for Non-Loadbearing Exterior Walls Forming Part of Sentence 9.24.2.5.(1)
Maximum Stud Length, m Minimum Metal Thickness, Spacing of Studs
mm
300 mm o.c. 400 mm o.c.
30×91 0.53 3.0 2.4
Minimum Stud Size, mm
30 × 91 30 × 91 30 × 91
9.24.3. 9.24.3.1.
0.69 3.3 0.85 3.6 1.0 4.0
Installation
Installation of Runners
2.7 3.0 3.3
600 mm o.c.
— 2.4
2.7 3.0
9.24.3.2.
2) Runners required in Sentence (1) shall be securely attached to the building at approximately 50 mm from the ends, and at intervals of not more than 600 mm o.c. for interior walls and 300 mm o.c. for exterior walls.
3) Fasteners used for attachment described in Sentence (2) shall consist of the equivalent of 63 mm nails or 25 mm screws.
4) Studs at openings and which are not full wall height shall be supported by a runner at the ends of the studs, securely fastened to the full length studs at the sides of the opening.
Fire-Rated Walls
1) Steel studs used in walls required to have a fire-resistance rating shall be installed so that there is not less than a 12 mm clearance between the top of the stud and the top of the runner to allow for expansion in the event of fire.
2) Except as provided in Article 9.24.3.6., studs in walls referred to in Sentence (1) shall not be attached to the runners in a manner that will prevent such expansion.
3) Framing above doors with steel door frames in non-loadbearing fire separations required to have a fire-resistance rating shall consist of 2 runners on the flat fastened back to back. (See Note A-9.24.3.2.(3).)
1) Runners shall be provided at the tops and bottoms of walls.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-159
     © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 9.24.3.3.
Division B
9.24.3.3.
9.24.3.4.
9.24.3.5.
9.24.3.6.
9.24.3.7.
4) The upper runner required in Sentence (3) shall be bent at each end to extend upwards not less than 150 mm and fastened to the adjacent studs.
5) A gypsum board filler piece, the width and length of the runner, shall be provided between the door frame referred to in Sentence (3) and the adjacent runner.
Orientation of Studs
1) Steel studs shall be installed with webs at right angles to the wall face and,
except at openings, shall be continuous for the full wall height.
Support for Cladding Materials
1) Corners and intersections of walls shall be constructed to provide support for
the cladding materials.
Framing around Openings
1) Studs shall be doubled on each side of every opening where such openings involve more than one stud space, and shall be tripled where the openings in exterior walls exceed 2.4 m in width.
2) Studs described in Sentence (1) shall be fastened together by screws, crimping or welding to act as a single structural unit in resisting transverse loads.
Attachment of Studs to Runners
1) Studs shall be attached to runners by screws, crimping or welding around wall openings and elsewhere where necessary to keep the studs in alignment during construction.
2) Where clearance for expansion is required in Article 9.24.3.2., attachment required in Sentence (1) shall be applied between studs and bottom runners only.
Openings for Fire Dampers
1) Openings for fire dampers in non-loadbearing fire separations required to have a
fire-resistance rating shall be framed with double studs on each side of the opening.
2) The sill and header for openings described in Sentence (1) shall consist of a runner track with right angle bends made on each end so as to extend 300 mm above the header or below the sill and fastened to the studs.
3) The openings described in Sentence (1) shall be lined with a layer of gypsum board not less than 12.7 mm thick fastened to stud and runner webs.
Section 9.25. Heat Transfer, Air Leakage and Condensation Control
9.25.1. 9.25.1.1.
General
Scope and Application
1) This Section is concerned with heat, air and water vapour transfer and measures to control condensation.
2) All walls, ceilings and floors separating conditioned space from unconditioned space, the exterior air or the ground shall be
9-160 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
a)
b)
provided with
i) thermal insulation conforming to Subsection 9.25.2.,
ii) anairbarrierconformingtoSubsection9.25.3.,and iii) avapourbarrierconformingtoSubsection9.25.4.,and
constructed in such a way that the properties and relative position of all materials conform to Subsection 9.25.5.
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 9.25.2.3.
9.25.2. 9.25.2.1.
9.25.2.2.
3) Insulation and sealing of heating and ventilating ducts shall conform to Sections 9.32. and 9.33.
Thermal Insulation Required Insulation
1) All walls, ceilings and floors separating heated space from unheated space, the exterior air or the exterior soil shall be provided with sufficient thermal insulation to prevent moisture condensation on their room side during the winter and to ensure comfortable conditions for the occupants. (See Note A-9.1.1.1.(1).)
Insulation Materials
1) Except as required in Sentence (2), thermal insulation shall conform to the requirements of
a) ASTM C 726, “Mineral Wool Roof Insulation Board,”
b) CAN/CGSB-51.25-M, “Thermal Insulation, Phenolic, Faced,”
c) CGSB 51-GP-27M, “Thermal Insulation, Polystyrene, Loose Fill,”
d) CAN/ULC-S701.1, “Thermal Insulation, Polystyrene Boards,”
e) CAN/ULC-S702, “Mineral Fibre Thermal Insulation for Buildings,”
f) CAN/ULC-S703, “Cellulose Fibre Insulation for Buildings,”
g) CAN/ULC-S704, “Thermal Insulation, Polyurethane and Polyisocyanurate, Boards, Faced,”
h) CAN/ULC-S705.1, “Thermal Insulation – Spray Applied Rigid Polyurethane Foam, Medium Density – Material Specification,” or
i) CAN/ULC-S706.1, “Wood Fibre Insulating Boards for Buildings.”
2) The flame-spread ratings requirements contained in the standards listed in Sentence (1) shall not apply. (See Note A-9.25.2.2.(2).)
3) Insulation in contact with the ground shall be inert to the action of soil and water and shall be such that its insulative properties are not significantly reduced by moisture.
Installation of Thermal Insulation
1) Insulation shall be installed so that there is a reasonably uniform insulating
value over the entire face of the insulated area.
2) Insulation shall be applied to the full width and length of the space between furring or framing.
3) Except where the insulation provides the principal resistance to air leakage, thermal insulation shall be installed so that at least one face is in full and continuous contact with an element with low air permeance. (See Note A-9.25.2.3.(3).)
4) Insulation on the interior of foundation walls enclosing a crawl space shall be applied so that there is not less than 50 mm clearance above the crawl space floor, if the insulation is of a type that may be damaged by water.
5) Insulation around concrete slabs-on-ground shall be located so that heat from the building is not restricted from reaching the ground beneath the perimeter, where exterior walls are not supported by footings extending below frost level.
6) Where insulation is exposed to the weather and subject to mechanical damage, it shall be protected with not less than
a) 6 mm preservative-treated plywood, or
b) 12 mm cement parging on wire lath applied to the exposed face and edge.
7) Insulation located in areas where it may be subject to mechanical damage shall be protected by a covering such as gypsum board, plywood, particleboard, OSB, waferboard or hardboard.
8) Insulation in factory-built buildings shall be installed so that it will not become dislodged during transportation.
9.25.2.3.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Amended Page Division B 9-161
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 9.25.2.4.
Division B
9.25.2.4.
Installation of Loose-Fill Insulation
1) Except as provided in Sentences (2) to (6), loose-fill insulation shall be used on
horizontal surfaces only.
2) Where loose-fill insulation is installed in an unconfined sloped space, such as an attic space over a sloped ceiling, the supporting slope shall not be more than
a) 4.5 in 12 for mineral fibre or cellulose fibre insulation, and
b) 2.5 in 12 for other types of insulation.
3) Loose-fill insulation is permitted to be used in wood-frame walls of existing buildings. (See Note A-9.25.2.4.(3).)
4) Where blown-in insulation is installed in above-ground or below-ground wood-frame walls of new buildings,
a) the density of the installed insulation shall be sufficient to preclude settlement,
b) the insulation shall be installed behind a membrane that will permit visual inspection prior to the installation of the interior finish,
c) the insulation shall be installed in a manner that will not interfere with the installation of the interior finish, and
d) no water shall be added to the insulation, unless it can be shown that the added water will not adversely affect other materials in the assembly.
5) Water repellent loose-fill insulation is permitted to be used between the outer and inner wythes of masonry cavity walls. (See Note A-9.25.2.4.(5).)
6) Where soffit venting is used, measures shall be taken
a) to prevent loose-fill insulation from blocking the soffit vents and to maintain
an open path for circulation of air from the vents into the attic or roof space,
and
b) to minimize airflow into the insulation near the soffit vents to maintain the
thermal performance of the material. (See Article 9.19.1.3.)
Installation of Spray-Applied Polyurethane
1) Spray-applied polyurethane insulation shall be installed in accordance with CAN/ULC-S705.2, “Thermal Insulation – Spray Applied Rigid Polyurethane Foam, Medium Density – Application.”
Air Barrier Systems Required Barrier to Air Leakage
1) Wall, ceiling and floor assemblies separating conditioned space from unconditioned space or from the ground shall be constructed so as to include an air barrier system that will provide a continuous barrier to air leakage
a) from the interior of the building into wall, floor, attic or roof spaces, sufficient to prevent excessive moisture condensation in such spaces during the winter, and
b) from the exterior or the ground inward sufficient to
i) prevent moisture condensation on the room side during
winter,
ii) ensurecomfortableconditionsfortheoccupants,and
iii) minimize the ingress of soil gas.
(See Note A-9.25.3.1.(1).)
Air Barrier System Properties
(See Note A-9.25.5.1.(1).)
1) Air barrier systems shall possess the characteristics necessary to provide an effective barrier to air infiltration and exfiltration under differential air pressure due to stack effect, mechanical systems or wind.
9.25.2.5.
9.25.3. 9.25.3.1.
9.25.3.2.
9-162 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 9.25.3.6.
9.25.3.3.
2) Where polyethylene sheet is used to provide airtightness in the air barrier system, it shall conform to CAN/CGSB-51.34-M, “Vapour Barrier, Polyethylene Sheet for Use in Building Construction.”
Continuity of the Air Barrier System
1) Where the air barrier system consists of an air-impermeable panel-type material,
all joints shall be sealed to prevent air leakage.
2) Except as provided in Sentence 9.25.3.6.(3), where the air barrier system consists of flexible sheet material, all joints shall be
a) sealed, or
b) lapped not less than 100 mm and clamped, such as between framing
members, furring or blocking, and rigid panels.
3) Where an interior wall meets an exterior wall, ceiling, floor or roof required to be provided with air barrier protection, the air barrier system shall extend across the intersection.
4) Where an interior wall projects through a ceiling or extends to become an exterior wall, spaces in the wall shall be blocked to provide continuity across those spaces with the air barrier system in the abutting walls or ceiling.
5) Where an interior floor projects through an exterior wall or extends to become an exterior floor, continuity of the air barrier system shall be maintained from the abutting walls across the floor assembly.
6) Penetrations of the air barrier system, such as those created by the installation of doors, windows, electrical wiring, electrical boxes, piping or ductwork, shall be sealed to maintain the integrity of the air barrier system over the entire surface.
7) Where access hatches and sump pit covers are installed through assemblies constructed with an air barrier system, they shall be weatherstripped around their perimeters to prevent air leakage.
8) Clearances between chimneys or gas vents and the surrounding construction that would permit air leakage from within the building into a wall or attic or roof space shall be sealed by noncombustible material to prevent such leakage.
Air Leakage Control in Masonry Walls
(See Note A-9.25.3.4. and 9.25.3.6.)
1) Masonry walls required to provide a barrier to the ingress of air from the ground shall
a) include a course of masonry units without voids, or
b) be sealed with flashing material extending across the full width of the
masonry.
2) The masonry course or flashing described in Sentence (1) shall
a) be located at the level of the adjoining floor and be sealed to it in accordance
with Article 9.25.3.6., or
b) in the absence of a floor, be located at the level of the ground cover required
by Article 9.18.6.1. and be sealed to it.
Air Leakage Control in Underground Roofs
1) Waterproofing systems for roofs of underground structures shall be sealed to
the air barrier in the walls.
Air Barrier Systems in Floors-on-ground
(See Note A-9.25.3.4. and 9.25.3.6.)
1) Materials used to provide a barrier to the ingress of air through floors-on-ground shall conform to CAN/CGSB-51.34-M, “Vapour Barrier, Polyethylene Sheet for Use in Building Construction.”
9.25.3.4.
9.25.3.5.
9.25.3.6.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-163
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 9.25.4.1.
Division B
9.25.4. 9.25.4.1.
9.25.4.2.
2) Where the floor-on-ground is a concrete slab, the air barrier shall be
a) installed below the slab, or
b) applied to the top of the slab, provided a separate floor is installed over
the slab.
(See Note A-9.25.3.6.(2) and (3).)
3) Where the air barrier installed below a floor-on-ground is flexible sheet material, joints in the barrier shall be lapped not less than 300 mm. (See Note A-9.25.3.6.(2)
and (3).)
4) Where installed in conjunction with a framed floor-on-ground or above a floor-on-ground, the air barrier shall be installed in accordance with Article 9.25.3.3.
5) A floor-on-ground shall be sealed around its perimeter to the inner surfaces of adjacent walls using flexible sealant.
6) All penetrations of a floor-on-ground that are required to drain water from the floor surface shall be sealed in a manner that prevents the upward flow of air without preventing the downward flow of liquid water.
Vapour Barriers
Required Barrier to Vapour Diffusion
1) Thermally insulated wall, ceiling and floor assemblies shall be constructed with a vapour barrier so as to provide a barrier to diffusion of water vapour from the interior into wall spaces, floor spaces or attic or roof spaces.
Vapour Barrier Materials
1) Vapour barriers shall have a permeance not greater than 60 ng/(Pa·s·m2) measured in accordance with ASTM E 96/E 96M, “Water Vapor Transmission of Materials,” using the desiccant method (dry cup).
2) Where the intended use of the interior space will result in high moisture generation, the assembly shall be designed according to Part 5. (See Note A-9.25.4.2.(2).)
3) Where polyethylene is installed to serve only as the vapour barrier, it shall comply with Clause 4.4, Thermal Stability, and Clause 5.7, Oxidative Induction Time, of CAN/CGSB-51.34-M, “Vapour Barrier, Polyethylene Sheet for Use in Building Construction.”
4) Membrane-type vapour barriers other than polyethylene shall conform to the requirements of CAN/CGSB-51.33-M, “Vapour Barrier Sheet, Excluding Polyethylene, for Use in Building Construction.”
5) Where a coating is applied to gypsum board to function as the vapour barrier, the permeance of the coating shall be determined in accordance with CAN/CGSB-1.501-M, “Method for Permeance of Coated Wallboard.”
6) Where foamed plastic insulation functions as the vapour barrier, it shall be sufficiently thick so as to meet the requirement of Sentence (1).
Installation of Vapour Barriers
1) Products installed to function as the vapour barrier shall protect the warm side of
wall, ceiling and floor assemblies.
2) Where different products are used for the vapour barrier and the insulation, the vapour barrier shall be installed sufficiently close to the warm side of the insulation to prevent condensation at design conditions. (See Note A-9.25.4.3.(2) and Note A-9.25.5.1.(1).)
3) Where the same product is used for the vapour barrier and the insulation, the product shall be installed sufficiently close to the warm side of the assembly to prevent condensation at design conditions. (See Notes A-9.25.4.3.(2), A-9.25.5.1.(1) and A-9.25.5.2.)
9.25.4.3.
9-164 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 9.25.5.2.
9.25.5. 9.25.5.1.
Properties and Position of Materials in the Building Envelope
General
(See Note A-9.25.5.1.)
1) Except as provided in Sentences (2) to (3), sheet and panel-type materials incorporated into assemblies described in Article 9.25.1.1. shall conform to Article 9.25.5.2., where
a) the material has
i) anairleakagecharacteristiclessthan0.1L/(s·m2)at75Pa,
and
ii) awatervapourpermeancelessthan60ng/(Pa·s·m2)when
measured in accordance with ASTM E 96/E 96M, “Water Vapor Transmission of Materials,” using the desiccant method (dry cup) (see Note A-9.25.5.1.(1)(a)(ii)), and
b) the intended use of the interior space where the materials are installed will not result in high moisture generation.
(See Note A-9.25.5.1.(1).)
2) Where the intended use of the interior space will result in high moisture generation, the assembly shall be designed according to Part 5.
3) Wood-based sheathing materials not more than 12.5 mm thick and complying with Article 9.23.17.2. need not comply with Sentence (1). (See Note A-9.25.5.1.(3).)
Position of Low Permeance Materials
(See Note A-9.25.5.2.)
1) Sheet and panel-type materials described in Article 9.25.5.1. shall be installed
a) on the warm face of the assembly (see also Article 9.25.4.2.),
b) at a location where the ratio between the total thermal resistance of all
materials outboard of its innermost impermeable surface and the total thermal resistance of all materials inboard of that surface is not less than that required by Table 9.25.5.2., or
c) outboard of an air space that is vented to the outdoors.
2) For walls, the air space described in Clause (1)(c) shall comply with Clause 9.27.2.2.(1)(a).
Table 9.25.5.2.
Ratio of Outboard to Inboard Thermal Resistance Forming Part of Sentence 9.25.5.2.(1)
9.25.5.2.
Heating Degree-Days of Building Location(1), Celsius degree-days
upto4999 5000to5999 6000to6999 7000to7999 8000to8999 9000to9999
10 000 to 10 999 11 000 to 11 999 12 000 or higher
Notes to Table 9.25.5.2.:
(1) See Sentence 1.1.3.1.(1).
Minimum Ratio of Total Thermal Resistance Outboard of Material’s Inner Surface to Total Thermal Resistance Inboard of Material’s Inner Surface
0.20 0.30 0.35 0.40 0.50 0.55 0.60 0.65 0.75
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Division B
9-165
   © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 9.26.1.1. Division B
Section 9.26. Roofing
9.26.1. 9.26.1.1.
9.26.1.2.
General Definitions
1) For the purpose of this Section, the term “roof” shall mean sloped or near-horizontal assemblies that protect the spaces beneath them, including platforms that effectively serve as roofs with respect to the accumulation or drainage of precipitation. (See Note A-9.26.1.1.(1).)
2) For the purpose of this Section, the term “roofing” shall mean the primary covering for roofs.
Required Protection
1) Roofs shall be protected with roofing, including flashing, installed so as to
a) effectively shed water,
b) prevent the ingress of water and moisture into building assemblies and
occupied space, and
c) minimize the ingress of water due to ice damming into building assemblies.
2) Compliance with Sentence (1) shall be demonstrated by conforming to
a) the remainder of this Section, or
b) Part 5.
Alternative Installation Methods
1) Methods described in CAN3-A123.51-M, “Asphalt Shingle Application on Roof Slopes 1:3 and Steeper,” or in CAN3-A123.52-M, “Asphalt Shingle Application on Roof Slopes 1:6 to Less Than 1:3,” are permitted to be used for asphalt shingle applications not described in this Section.
Roofing Materials Material Standards
1) Where materials used for the preparation of the substrate for roofing are covered in the scope of a standard listed in Table 9.26.2.1.-A, they shall conform to that standard.
Table 9.26.2.1.-A
Materials for Preparation of the Substrate for Roofing Forming Part of Sentence 9.26.2.1.(1)
Standards
CAN/CGSB-51.32-M, “Sheathing, Membrane, Breather Type”
CGSB 37-GP-9Ma, “Primer, Asphalt, Unfilled, for Asphalt Roofing, Dampproofing and Waterproofing”
9.26.1.3.
9.26.2. 9.26.2.1.
Type of Material
Sheathing membranes Primers
Where roofing materials are covered in the scope of a standard listed in Table 9.26.2.1.-B, they shall conform to that standard.
2)
9-166 Division B Amended Page National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec
Division B
9.26.2.3.
Types of Roof Covering
Built-up roofing (BUR)
Single-ply membranes
Shingles, shakes, tiles, panels
Eave protection Flashing
Notes to Table 9.26.2.1.-B:
Table 9.26.2.1.-B
Roofing Materials
Forming Part of Sentence 9.26.2.1.(2)
Standards
ASTM D 3019, “Lap Cement Used with Asphalt Roll Roofing, Non-Fibered, Asbestos-Fibered, and Non-Asbestos-Fibered”(1)
ASTM D 4479/D 4479M, “Asphalt Roof Coatings – Asbestos-Free”
CGSB 37-GP-56M, “Membrane, Modified, Bituminous, Prefabricated, and Reinforced for Roofing”
CAN/CGSB-37.50-M, “Hot-Applied, Rubberized Asphalt for Roofing and Waterproofing”
CAN/CSA-A123.2, “Asphalt-Coated Roofing Sheets”
CSA A123.3, “Asphalt Saturated Organic Roofing Felt”
CAN/CSA-A123.4, “Asphalt for Constructing Built-Up Roof Coverings and Waterproofing Systems”
CSA A123.17, “Asphalt Glass Felt Used in Roofing and Waterproofing”
CAN/CGSB-37.54, “Polyvinyl Chloride Roofing and Waterproofing Membrane”
CAN/CGSB-37.58-M, “Membrane, Elastomeric, Cold-Applied Liquid, for Non-Exposed Use in Roofing and Waterproofing”
ASTM D 4637/D 4637M, “EPDM Sheet Used In Single-Ply Roof Membrane”
ASTM D 4811/D 4811M, “Nonvulcanized (Uncured) Rubber Sheet Used as Roof Flashing”
ASTM D 6878/D 6878M, “Thermoplastic Polyolefin Based Sheet Roofing”
CSA A123.1/A123.5, “Asphalt Shingles Made From Organic Felt and Surfaced with Mineral Granules/Asphalt Shingles Made From Glass Felt and Surfaced with Mineral Granules”
CAN/CSA-A220 Series, “Concrete Roof Tiles”
CSA O118.1, “Western Red Cedar Shakes and Shingles”
CSA O118.2, “Eastern White Cedar Shingles”
CSA A123.22, “Self-Adhering Polymer Modified Bituminous Sheet Materials Used as Steep Roofing Underlayment for Ice Dam Protection”
ASTM D 4811/D 4811M, “Nonvulcanized (Uncured) Rubber Sheet Used as Roof Flashing”
(1) For the purpose of this Subsection, ASTM D 3019 shall only apply to the non-fibered and non-asbestos-fibered types (I and III) of asphalt roll roofing.
9.26.2.2.
9.26.2.3.
Installation of Materials
1) Materials listed in Tables 9.26.2.1.-A and 9.26.2.1.-B shall be installed in conformance with the manufacturer’s written instructions. (See Sentence 1.5.1.2.(1) of Division A.)
Nails
1) Nails used for roofing shall be corrosion-resistant roofing or shingle nails conforming to
a) ASTM F 1667, “Driven Fasteners: Nails, Spikes, and Staples,” or
b) CSA B111, “Wire Nails, Spikes and Staples.”
2) Nails shall have sufficient length to penetrate through, or 12 mm into, roof sheathing.
3) Nails used with asphalt roofing shall have a head diameter of not less than 9.5 mm and a shank thickness of not less than 2.95 mm.
4) Nails used with wood shingles or shakes shall have a head diameter of not less than 4.8 mm and a shank thickness of not less than 2.0 mm and shall be stainless steel, aluminum or hot-dipped galvanized. (See Note A-9.26.2.3.(4).)
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-167
          © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022
 9.26.2.4.
Division B
9.26.2.4.
Staples
1) Staples used to apply asphalt or wood shingles shall be corrosion-resistant and
shall be driven with the crown parallel to the eaves.
2) Staples used with asphalt shingles shall be not less than 19 mm long, 1.6 mm diam or thickness, with not less than a 25 mm crown, except that an 11 mm crown may be used as provided in Sentence 9.26.7.4.(2).
3) Staples used with wood shingles shall be not less than 29 mm long, 1.6 mm diam or thickness, with not less than a 9.5 mm crown and shall be stainless steel or aluminum. (See Note A-9.26.2.3.(4).)
Slope of Roofed Surfaces Slope
1) Except as provided in Sentences (2) and (3), the slopes on which roof coverings may be applied shall conform to Table 9.26.3.1.
2) Asphalt and gravel or coal tar and gravel roofs may be constructed with lower slopes than required in Sentence (1) when effective drainage is provided by roof drains located at the lowest points on the roofs.
3) Profiled metal roof cladding systems specifically designed for low-slope applications are permitted to be installed with lower slopes than required by Sentence (1), provided they are installed in conformance with the manufacturer’s written recommendations.
4) Except where back-slope will not adversely affect adjacent supported or supporting constructions due to water ingress, roofs and constructions that effectively serve as roofs shall be constructed with sufficient slope away from
a) exterior walls, and
b) guards that are connected to the roof, or to a construction that effectively
serves as a roof, by more than pickets or posts.
(See Notes A-9.26.1.1.(1), A-9.26.4.1. and A-9.27.3.8.(4).)
5) The slope required by Sentence (4) shall be sufficient to maintain a positive slope
a) after expected shrinkage of the building frame, where these surfaces are supported by exterior walls and exterior columns (see Note A-9.27.3.8.(4)), and
b) once design loading is taken into consideration, where these surfaces are cantilevered from exterior walls.
9.26.3. 9.26.3.1.
9-168 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
9.26.4.3.
Type of Roofing
Asphalt Shingles
Low slope application Normal application
Built-up Roofing
Asphalt base (without gravel) Asphalt base (gravelled) Coal-tar base (gravelled) Cold process
Cedar Shakes
Clay Tile
Glass Fibre Reinforced Polyester Roofing Panels Modified Bituminous Membranes
Profiled Metal Roofing
Roll Roofing
480 mm wide selvage asphalt roofing Cold application felt
Smooth and mineral surfaced
Sheet Metal Shingles Slate Shingles
Wood Shingles
Notes to Table 9.26.3.1.:
(1) See Sentence 9.26.3.1.(3).
Table 9.26.3.1.
Roofing Types and Slope Limits Forming Part of Sentence 9.26.3.1.(1)
Minimum Slope
1 in 6 1 in 3
1 in 25 1 in 50(1) 1 in 50(1) 1 in 25 1 in 3 1 in 2 1 in 4 1 in 50 1 in 4(1)
1 in 6 1 in 50 1 in 4 1 in 4(1) 1 in 2 1 in 4
Maximum Slope
no limit no limit
1 in 2
1 in 4 1 in 25 1 in 1.33 no limit no limit no limit 1 in 4 no limit
no limit 1 in 1.33 no limit no limit no limit no limit
9.26.4. 9.26.4.1.
9.26.4.2.
9.26.4.3.
Flashing at Intersections Required Flashing at Intersections
(See Notes A-9.26.4.1. and A-9.26.1.1.(1).)
1) Except where the omission of flashing will not adversely affect adjacent supported or supporting constructions, flashing shall be installed at junctions between roofs and
a) walls that rise above the roof, and
b) guards that are connected to the roof by more than pickets or posts.
2) For the purpose of Sentence (1), roofs shall include platforms that effectively serve as roofs with respect to the accumulation or drainage of precipitation.
Materials
1) Sheet metal flashing shall consist of not less than
a) 1.73 mm thick sheet lead,
b) 0.33 mm thick galvanized steel,
c) 0.33 mm thick copper,
d) 0.35 mm thick zinc, or
e) 0.48 mm thick aluminum.
Valley Flashing
1) Where sloping surfaces of shingled roofs intersect to form a valley, the valley
shall be flashed.
2) Valley flashing shall be installed over continuous sheathing.
3) Closed valleys shall not be used with rigid shingles on slopes of less than 1 in 1.2.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Amended Page Division B 9-169
   © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 9.26.4.4.
Division B
9.26.4.4.
4) Open valleys shall be flashed with at least
a) one layer of sheet metal not less than 600 mm wide, or
b) 2 layers of roll roofing.
5) The bottom layer of roofing required in Sentence (4) shall consist of at least Type S smooth roll roofing or Type M mineral surface roll roofing (mineral surface down) not less than 457 mm wide, centred in the valley and fastened with nails spaced not more than 450 mm o.c. located 25 mm away from the edges.
6) The top layer of roofing required in Sentence (4) shall consist of at least Type M mineral surface roll roofing (mineral surface up), 914 mm wide, centred in the valley, applied over a 100 mm wide strip of cement along each edge of the bottom layer, and fastened with a sufficient number of nails to hold it in place until the shingles are applied.
Intersection of Shingle Roofs and Masonry
1) The intersection of shingle roofs and masonry walls or chimneys shall be
protected with flashing.
2) Counter flashing required in Sentence (1) shall be embedded not less than
25 mm in the masonry and shall extend not less than 150 mm down the masonry and lap the lower flashing not less than 100 mm.
3) Flashing along the slopes of a roof described in Sentence (1) shall be stepped so that there is not less than a 75 mm head lap in both the lower flashing and counter flashing.
4) Where the roof described in Sentence (1) slopes upwards from the masonry, the flashing shall extend up the roof slope to a point equal in height to the flashing on the masonry, but not less than 1.5 times the shingle exposure.
Intersection of Shingle Roofs and Walls other than Masonry
1) The intersection of shingle roofs and walls clad with other than masonry shall
be protected with flashing.
2) Flashing required in Sentence (1) shall be installed so that it extends up the wall not less than 75 mm behind the sheathing paper, and extends not less than 75 mm horizontally.
3) Along the slope of the roof, the flashing required in Sentence (1) shall be stepped with not less than a 75 mm head lap.
Intersection of Built-Up Roofs and Masonry
1) The intersection of built-up roofs with masonry walls or chimneys shall have a cant strip at the intersection, and a roofing membrane shall be mopped over the cant strip and not less than 150 mm up the wall.
2) Counter flashing installed over the intersection referred to in Sentence (1) shall be embedded not less than 25 mm in the masonry, and shall be of sufficient length to extend down not less than 150 mm, lapping the membrane on the masonry not less than 100 mm.
Intersection of Built-Up Roofs and Walls other than Masonry
1) The intersection of built-up roofs with walls clad with other than masonry
shall have a cant strip at the intersection.
2) The roofing membrane shall be mopped over the cant strip referred to in Sentence (1).
3) Flashing plies shall extend not less than 150 mm up the wall referred to in Sentence (1) behind the sheathing paper.
9.26.4.5.
9.26.4.6.
9.26.4.7.
9-170 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 9.26.6.2.
9.26.4.8.
Chimney Saddles
1) Except as otherwise permitted in Sentence (5), chimney saddles shall be installed
where the upper side of a chimney on a sloping roof is more than 750 mm wide.
2) Chimney saddles shall be covered with sheet metal or roofing material of weight
and quality equivalent to the roofing.
3) Saddles shall be flashed where they intersect the roof.
4) The intersection of the saddle and the chimney shall be flashed and
counterflashed as described in Article 9.26.4.4.
5) A chimney saddle need not be installed if the intersection between the chimney and roof is protected by sheet metal flashing that extends up the chimney to a height equal to at least one sixth the width of the chimney, but not less than 150 mm, and up the roof slope to a point equal in height to the flashing on the chimney, but not less than 1.5 times the shingle exposure.
6) Flashing described in Sentence (5) at the chimney shall be counterflashed as required by Article 9.26.4.4.
Eave Protection for Shingles and Shakes Required Eave Protection
1) Except as provided in Sentence (2), eave protection shall be provided on shingle, shake or tile roofs, extending from the edge of the roof a minimum of 900 mm up the roof slope to a line not less than 300 mm inside the inner face of the exterior wall.
2) Eave protection is not required
a) over unheated garages, carports and porches,
b) where the roof overhang exceeds 900 mm measured along the roof slope
from the edge of the roof to the inner face of the exterior wall,
c) on roofs of asphalt shingles installed in accordance with Subsection 9.26.8.,
d) on roofs with slopes of 1 in 1.5 or greater, or
e) in regions with 3 500 or fewer degree-days.
Materials
1) Eave protection shall be laid beneath the starter strip and shall consist of
a) No. 15 asphalt-saturated felt laid in two plies lapped 480 mm and cemented
together with lap cement,
b) Type M or S roll roofing laid with not less than 100 mm head and end laps
cemented together with lap cement,
c) glass fibre or polyester fibre coated base sheets, or
d) self-sealing composite membranes consisting of modified bituminous coated material.
Underlay beneath Shingles Materials
1) Except as required in Sentence (2), when underlay is used beneath shingles, it shall be
a) asphalt-saturated sheathing paper weighing not less than 0.195 kg/m2, or
b) No. 15 plain or perforated asphalt-saturated felt.
2) Underlay used beneath wood shingles shall be breather type. Installation
1) When used with shingles, underlay shall be installed parallel to the eaves with head and end lap of not less than 50 mm.
2) The top edge of each strip of underlay referred to in Sentence (1) shall be fastened with sufficient roofing nails to hold it in place until the shingles are applied.
9.26.5. 9.26.5.1.
9.26.5.2.
9.26.6. 9.26.6.1.
9.26.6.2.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-171
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 9.26.7.1.
Division B
9.26.7. 9.26.7.1.
9.26.7.2.
3) The underlay referred to in Sentence (1) shall overlap the eave protection by not less than 100 mm. (See Article 9.26.10.2. for underlay beneath wood shakes.)
Asphalt Shingles on Slopes of 1 in 3 or Greater Coverage
1) Coverage shall be not less than 2 thicknesses of shingle over the entire roof, disregarding cutouts.
Starter Strip
1) A starter strip shall be installed along the lower edge of the roof so that it extends approximately 12 mm beyond the eaves and rake of the roof and fastened along the bottom edge with nails spaced not more than 300 mm o.c.
2) Starter strips shall be
a) at least Type M mineral-surfaced roll roofing not less than 300 mm wide,
b) shingles of the same weight and quality as those used as a roof covering
with tabs facing up the roof slope, or
c) pre-manufactured starter strips installed with sealant at the eaves.
3) Starter strips need not be provided where eave protection of not less than Type M mineral-surfaced roll roofing is provided.
Head Lap
1) Shingles shall have a head lap of not less than 50 mm.
Fasteners
1) Except as provided in Sentence (2), shingles shall be fastened with at least 4
nails or staples for 1 m wide shingles so that no nails or staples are exposed.
2) Where staples with an 11 mm crown are used, shingles shall be fastened with at least 6 staples.
3) Fasteners may be reduced for narrower shingles in proportion to the width of the shingle or when shingles incorporating interlocking devices are used.
4) Fasteners referred to in Sentences (1) and (2) shall be located 25 mm to 40 mm from each end of each strip shingle with other fasteners equally spaced between them.
5) Fasteners referred to in Sentences (1) and (2) shall be located not less than 12 mm above the tops of the cutouts.
Securing of Tabs
1) Shingle tabs shall be secured by a spot of plastic cement not exceeding 25 mm
diam under the centre of each tab or by interlocking devices or self-sealing strips.
Hips and Ridges
1) Shingles on hips and ridges shall be applied so they extend not less than
100 mm on either side of the hip or ridge, and shall be lapped not less than 150 mm.
2) Shingles referred to in Sentence (1) shall be fastened with nails or staples on each side located not more than 25 mm from the edge and 25 mm above the butt of the overlying shingle.
Eave Protection
1) Eave protection shall conform to Subsection 9.26.5.
Flashing
1) Flashing shall conform to Subsection 9.26.4.
9.26.7.3.
9.26.7.4.
9.26.7.5.
9.26.7.6.
9.26.7.7.
9.26.7.8.
9-172 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 9.26.9.3.
9.26.8. 9.26.8.1.
9.26.8.2.
9.26.8.3.
9.26.8.4.
9.26.8.5.
9.26.8.6.
9.26.8.7.
9.26.9. 9.26.9.1.
9.26.9.2.
9.26.9.3.
Asphalt Shingles on Slopes of less than 1 in 3 Coverage
1) Except for the first 2 courses, coverage shall be not less than 3 thicknesses of shingle over the entire roof, disregarding cutouts.
Starter Strip
1) A starter strip shall be installed as in Article 9.26.7.2.
2) Starter strips required in Sentence (1) shall be laid in a continuous band of
cement not less than 200 mm wide.
Securing of Tabs
1) Shingle tabs shall be secured with cold application cement applied at the rate of not less than 0.5 L/m2 of cemented area, or hot application asphalt applied at the rate of 1 kg/m2 of cemented area.
Securing of Shingle Courses
1) The first course of shingles shall be secured by a continuous band of cement along the eaves applied so that the width of the band equals the shingle exposure plus 100 mm.
2) The succeeding courses of shingles shall be secured by a continuous band of cement applied so that the width of the band equals the shingle exposure plus 50 mm.
3) The band required in Sentence (2) shall be located not more than 50 mm above the butt of the overlying course of shingles.
Hips and Ridges
1) Shingles on hips and ridges shall be not less than 300 mm wide applied to
provide triple coverage.
2) Shingles referred to in Sentence (1) shall be cemented to the roof shingles and to each other with a coat of cement and fastened with nails or staples located 40 mm above the butt of the overlying shingle and 50 mm from each edge.
Flashing
1) Flashing shall conform to Subsection 9.26.4.
Fastening
1) Shingles shall be fastened in accordance with Article 9.26.7.4.
Wood Roof Shingles Decking
1) Except as provided in Sentence 9.23.16.1.(1), decking for wood shingled roofs may be continuous or spaced.
Grade
1) Western cedar shingles shall be not less than No. 2 grade.
2) Eastern white cedar shingles shall be not less than B (clear) grade.
Size
1) Wood shingles shall be not less than 400 mm long and not less than 75 mm or
more than 350 mm wide.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-173
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 9.26.9.4.
Division B
9.26.9.4.
9.26.9.5.
9.26.9.6.
Roof Slope
< 1 in 3 ≥ 1 in 3
9.26.9.7.
9.26.9.8.
9.26.10. 9.26.10.1.
9.26.10.2.
Spacing and Joints
1) Shingles shall be spaced approximately 6 mm apart and offset at the joints in
adjacent courses not less than 40 mm so that joints in alternate courses are staggered.
Fastening
1) Shingles shall be fastened with 2 nails or staples located approximately 20 mm
from the sides of the shingle and 40 mm above the exposure line.
Exposure
9.26.10.3.
9.26.10.4.
1) Shakes shall be not less than 450 mm long and not less than 100 mm nor more than 350 mm wide with a butt thickness of not more than 32 mm and not less than
9 mm.
Underlay
1) Where eave protection is not provided, an underlay conforming to the requirements in Article 9.26.6.1. for wood shingles shall be laid as a strip not less than 900 mm wide along the eaves.
2) A strip of material similar to that described in Sentence (1) not less than 450 mm wide shall be interlaid between each course of shakes with the bottom edge of the strip positioned above the butt line at a distance equal to double the exposure of the shakes.
3) Interlaid strips referred to in Sentence (2) shall be lapped not less than 150 mm at hips and ridges in a manner that will prevent water from reaching the roof sheathing.
Spacing and Joints
1) Shakes shall be spaced 6 mm to 9 mm apart and the joints in any one course
shall be separated not less than 40 mm from joints in adjacent courses.
Fastening
1) Shakes shall be fastened with nails located approximately 20 mm from the sides
of the shakes and 40 mm above the exposure line.
9-174 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
1)
The exposure of wood roof shingles shall conform to Table 9.26.9.6.
Table 9.26.9.6.
Exposure of Wood Roof Shingles Forming Part of Sentence 9.26.9.6.(1)
Maximum Exposure, mm
No.1 or A Grade Length of Shingle, mm No. 2 or B Grade Length of Shingle, mm
400 450 600 400
100 115 165 90 125 140 190 100
450 600
100 140 115 165
Flashing
1) Flashing shall conform to Subsection 9.26.4.
Eave Protection
1) Eave protection shall conform to Subsection 9.26.5.
Cedar Roof Shakes Size and Thickness
     © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
9.26.11.6.
9.26.10.5.
9.26.10.6.
9.26.10.7.
9.26.10.8.
9.26.11. 9.26.11.1.
Exposure
1) The exposure of wood shakes shall not exceed
a) 190 mm for shakes not less than 450 mm long, and
b) 250 mm for shakes not less than 600 mm long.
Flashing
1) Flashing shall conform to Subsection 9.26.4.
Eave Protection
1) Eave protection shall conform to Subsection 9.26.5.
Grade
1) Shakes shall be not less than No. 1 or Handsplit grade.
Built-Up Roofs Quantity of Materials
1) The quantities of bituminous materials used on built-up roofs shall conform to Table 9.26.11.1.
Asphalt and aggregate Coal-tar and aggregate Cold process roofing
Mopping Coats between Layers
1 kg
1.2 kg
0.75 L cold process cement
Flood Coat
3 kg
3.6 kg
2 L cold process top coating
9.26.11.2.
9.26.11.3.
9.26.11.4.
9.26.11.5.
9.26.11.6.
Coal-Tar and Asphalt Products
1) Coal-tar products and asphalt products shall not be used together in built-up
roof construction.
Roof Felts
1) Bitumen roofing felts shall be at least No. 15 felt.
Aggregate Surfacing
1) Aggregate used for surfacing built-up roofs shall be clean, dry and durable and shall consist of particles of gravel, crushed stone or air-cooled blast furnace slag having a size of from 6 mm to 15 mm.
2) The minimum amount of aggregate surfacing per square metre of roof surface shall be 15 kg gravel or crushed stone or 10 kg crushed slag.
Flashing
1) Flashing for built-up roofs shall conform to Subsection 9.26.4.
Number of Layers
1) Built-up roofing shall consist of not less than 3 mopped-down layers of roofing
felt flood coated with bitumen.
Type of Roof
Table 9.26.11.1.
Quantities of Bitumen for Built-up Roofs Forming Part of Sentence 9.26.11.1.(1)
Amount of Bitumen per Square Metre of Roof Surface
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-175
    © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 9.26.11.7. Division B
9.26.11.7.
9.26.11.8.
9.26.11.9.
9.26.11.10.
Installation of Layers
1) In hot process applications each layer of bitumen-saturated felt shall be laid
while the bitumen is hot, with each layer overlapping the previous one.
2) The full width under each lap referred to in Sentence (1) shall be coated with bitumen so that in no place does felt touch felt.
3) Felt shall be laid free of wrinkles and shall be rolled directly into the hot bitumen and broomed forward and outward from the centre to ensure complete adhesion.
Roofing over Wood-Based Sheathing
1) Except as permitted in Sentence (2), built-up roofing applied over wood, plywood, OSB or waferboard roof sheathing shall be laid over an additional base layer of felt laid dry over the entire roof deck with not less than a 50 mm headlap and a 50 mm sidelap between each sheet.
2) Where plywood, OSB or waferboard roof sheathing is used, the dry layer of felt required in Sentence (1) may be omitted when the joints are taped and the sheathing is primed with asphalt.
Attachment to Decking
1) Roofing shall be securely attached to the decking or where insulation is applied above the deck, the insulation shall be securely attached to the deck before the first layer of felt is fastened to the insulation.
Cant Strips
1) Except as permitted in Sentence (4), a cant strip shall be provided at the edges
of roofs.
2) At least 2 plies of the roofing membrane shall be carried over the top of the cant strip.
3) Flashing shall extend over the top of the cant strip and be shaped to form a drip.
4) The cant strip required in Sentence (1) need not be provided where a gravel
stop is installed at the edge of roofs.
5) The roofing membranes shall be carried over the edge of the roof before the gravel stop referred to in Sentence (4) is fastened and 2 plies of roofing membrane mopped to the top surface of the gravel stop before the flood coat is applied.
6) The gravel stop referred to in Sentence (4) shall extend over the edge of the roof to form a drip or shall be flashed so that the flashing extends over the edge to form a drip.
Selvage Roofing Coverage
1) Wide selvage asphalt roofing shall provide double coverage over the entire roof surface.
Joints
1) Plies of selvage roofing shall be cemented together to ensure a watertight joint.
Sheet Metal Roofing Thickness
1) Sheet metal roofing shall be not less than
a) 0.33 mm thick galvanized steel,
b) 0.46 mm thick copper,
c) 0.46 mm thick zinc, or
d) 0.48 mm thick aluminum.
9.26.12. 9.26.12.1.
9.26.12.2.
9.26.13. 9.26.13.1.
9-176 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 9.27.1.1.
9.26.13.2.
9.26.14. 9.26.14.1.
9.26.15. 9.26.15.1.
9.26.16. 9.26.16.1.
9.26.17. 9.26.17.1.
9.26.18. 9.26.18.1.
9.26.18.2.
Support
1) Except as provided in Sentence 9.23.16.1.(1), where sheet metal roofing is not supported by roof decking but spans between spaced supports, the panels shall be designed to support the specified live loads for roofs.
Glass Reinforced Polyester Roofing Support
1) Except as provided in Sentence 9.23.16.1.(1), where glass-reinforced polyester roofing panels are not supported by roof decking but span between spaced supports, the panels shall be designed to support the specified live roof loads.
Hot Applied Rubberized Asphalt Roofing Installation
1) Hot applied rubberized asphalt roofing shall be installed in accordance with CAN/CGSB-37.51-M, “Application for Hot-Applied Rubberized Asphalt for Roofing and Waterproofing.”
Polyvinyl Chloride Sheet Roofing Installation
1) Polyvinyl chloride sheet applied roofing membrane shall be installed in accordance with CGSB 37-GP-55M, “Application of Sheet Applied Flexible Polyvinyl Chloride Roofing Membrane.”
Concrete Roof Tiles Installation
1) Except as provided in Sentence 9.23.16.1.(1), concrete roof tiles shall be installed according to CAN/CSA-A220 Series, “Concrete Roof Tiles.” (See Note A-9.26.17.1.(1).)
Roof Drains and Downspouts Roof Drains
1) When roof drains are provided they shall conform to Part 7. Downspouts
1) Where downspouts are provided and are not connected to a sewer, extensions shall be provided to carry rainwater away from the building in a manner which will prevent soil erosion.
Section 9.27. Cladding
9.27.1. Application 9.27.1.1. General
1) Where lumber, wood shingles, shakes, fibre-cement shingles, planks and sheets, plywood, OSB, waferboard, hardboard, vinyl, aluminum or steel, including trim and soffits, are installed as cladding on wood-frame walls exposed to precipitation, the cladding assembly shall comply with
a) Subsections 9.27.2. to 9.27.12., or
b) Part 5.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-177
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 9.27.2.1.
Division B
9.27.2. 9.27.2.1.
2) Where stucco is installed as cladding on wood-frame or masonry walls exposed to precipitation, the cladding assembly shall comply with
a) Subsections 9.27.2. to 9.27.5., and Section 9.28., or
b) Part 5.
3) Where masonry serves as cladding on wood-frame or masonry walls exposed to precipitation, the cladding assembly shall comply with
a) Subsections 9.27.2. to 9.27.4., and Section 9.20., or
b) Part 5.
4) Where asphalt shingles are installed as cladding on wood-frame walls exposed to precipitation, the cladding assembly shall comply with
a) Subsections 9.26.7. and 9.27.2. to 9.27.4., or
b) Part 5.
5) Where an exterior insulation finish system is installed as cladding on wood-frame, masonry, cold-formed steel stud or cast-in-place concrete walls exposed to precipitation, the cladding assembly shall comply with
a) Subsections 9.25.5., 9.27.2. to 9.27.4., and 9.27.13., or
b) Part 5.
(See Note A-9.27.1.1.(5).)
6) Where cladding materials other than those described in Sentences (1) to (5) are installed, or where the cladding materials described in Sentences (1) to (5) are installed on substrates other than those identified in Sentences (1) to (5), the materials and installation shall comply with Part 5.
Required Protection from Precipitation
(See Note A-9.27.2.)
Minimizing and Preventing Ingress and Damage
1) Except where exterior walls are protected from precipitation or where it can be shown that precipitation ingress will not adversely affect occupant health or safety, exterior walls shall be designed and constructed to
a) minimize the ingress of precipitation into the assembly, and
b) prevent the ingress of precipitation into interior space.
(See Note A-9.27.2.1.(1).)
2) Except where exterior walls are protected from specific mechanisms of deterioration, such as mechanical impact and ultraviolet radiation, exterior walls shall be designed and constructed to minimize the likelihood of their required performance being reduced to an unacceptable level as a result of those mechanisms.
Minimum Protection from Precipitation Ingress
(See Note A-9.27.2.2.)
1) Except as provided in Sentence (2), a cladding assembly is deemed to have a capillary break between the cladding and the backing assembly, where
a) there is a drained and vented air space not less than 10 mm deep behind the cladding, over the full height and width of the wall (see also Article 9.27.5.3.),
b) an open drainage material, not less than 10 mm thick and with a cross-sectional area that is not less than 80% open, is installed between the cladding and the backing, over the full height and width of the wall,
c) the cladding is loosely fastened to the backing and behind each cladding component there is a clear air space that is
i) continuousforthefullwidthofthecomponent,
ii) notlessthan10mmdeepatthebottomofthecomponent,
and
iii) notlessthan6mmdeepovernotlessthan90mmforevery
230 mm of exposed height of the component,
9.27.2.2.
9-178 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
9.27.2.3.
9.27.2.3.
d) e)
the wall is a masonry cavity wall or the cladding is masonry veneer constructed according to Section 9.20., or
the cladding conforms to Subsection 9.27.13.
The drained and vented air space, and drainage material described in Sentence (1) may be interrupted by
a) penetrations for windows, doors and services,
b) flashing, and
c) furring, provided the furring does not make up more than 20% of the furred area.
3) Where a construction projects over the top of the drained and vented air space described in Clause (1)(a) or over the drainage material described in Clause (1)(b), the air space or drainage material shall not be contiguous with concealed spaces in the projecting construction.
4) Exterior walls exposed to precipitation shall be protected against precipitation ingress by an exterior cladding assembly consisting of a first plane of protection and a second plane of protection, where such walls enclose spaces of residential occupancy or spaces that directly serve spaces of residential occupancy.
5) Except as provided in Sentence (6), exterior walls exposed to precipitation shall be protected against precipitation ingress by an exterior cladding assembly consisting of a first plane of protection and a second plane of protection incorporating a capillary break, where
a) the number of degree-days is less than 3400 and the moisture index is greater than 0.90, or
b) the number of degree-days is 3400 or more, and the moisture index is greater than 1.00.
(See Sentence 1.1.3.1.(1) and Appendix C for information on the moisture index.)
6) In exterior walls described in Sentence (5), the first and second planes of protection need not incorporate a capillary break, where
a) it can be shown that omitting the capillary break will not adversely affect the performance of the building assemblies,
b) the building is an accessory building, or c) the wall
i) is constructed of non-moisture-sensitive materials, and intersecting or supported floors are also constructed of non-moisture-sensitive materials, or
ii) is constructed as a mass wall of sufficient thickness to minimize the transfer of moisture to the interior.
First and Second Planes of Protection
1) Where walls required to provide protection from precipitation comprise cladding assemblies with first and second planes of protection,
a) the first plane of protection shall
i) consistofcladdingwithappropriatetrim,accessorypieces
and fasteners, and
ii) be designed and constructed to minimize the passage
of rain and snow into the wall by minimizing holes and managing precipitation ingress caused by the kinetic energy of raindrops, surface tension, capillarity, gravity, and air pressure differences (see Subsection 9.27.4.),
2)
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Division B
9-179
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 9.27.2.4.
Division B
9.27.2.4.
9.27.3. 9.27.3.1.
Protection of Cladding from Moisture
1) A clearance of not less than 200 mm shall be provided between finished ground and cladding that is adversely affected by moisture, such as untreated wood, plywood, OSB, waferboard and hardboard.
2) A clearance of not less than 50 mm shall be provided between a roof surface and cladding that is adversely affected by moisture, such as untreated wood, plywood, OSB, waferboard and hardboard.
Second Plane of Protection
Elements of the Second Plane of Protection
(See Note A-9.27.3.1.)
1) The second plane of protection shall consist of a drainage plane having an appropriate inner boundary and flashing to dissipate rainwater to the exterior.
2) Except for cladding systems conforming to Subsection 9.27.13., the inner boundary of the drainage plane shall comply with Articles 9.27.3.2. to 9.27.3.6.
3) The protection provided by the second plane of protection shall be maintained
a) at wall penetrations created by the installation of components and services
such as windows, doors, ventilation ducts, piping, wiring and electrical
outlets, and
b) at the interface with other wall assemblies.
4) Flashing material and its installation shall comply with Articles 9.27.3.7. and 9.27.3.8.
Sheathing Membrane Material Standard
1) Sheathing membranes shall conform to the performance requirements of
CAN/CGSB-51.32-M, “Sheathing, Membrane, Breather Type.”
Required Sheathing Membrane and Installation
1) Except as provided in Articles 9.27.3.4. to 9.27.3.6., at least one layer of
sheathing membrane shall be applied beneath cladding.
2) Sheathing membrane required in Sentence (1) shall be applied so that joints are lapped not less than 100 mm.
3) Where sheathing membrane required in Sentence (1) is applied horizontally, the upper sheets shall overlap the lower sheets.
Insulating Sheathing in lieu of Sheathing Membrane
1) Where non-wood-based rigid exterior insulating sheathing, or exterior insulating sheathing with an integral sheathing membrane is installed, a separate sheathing membrane is not required.
9.27.3.2.
9.27.3.3.
9.27.3.4.
9-180 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
b)
c)
the second plane of protection shall be designed and constructed to (see Subsection 9.27.3.)
i) interceptallrainandsnowthatgetspastthefirstplaneof protection, and
ii) effectivelydissipateanyrainorsnowtotheexterior,and
the protection provided by the first and second planes of protection shall be maintained
i) at wall penetrations created by the installation of components and services such as windows, doors, ventilation ducts, piping, wiring and electrical outlets, and
ii) attheinterfacewithotherwallassemblies.
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
9.27.3.8.
9.27.3.5.
drainage of water to the exterior. (See Note A-9.27.3.4.(2).)
Sheathing Membranes in lieu of Sheathing
1) Except as provided in Article 9.27.3.6., where no sheathing is used, at least 2 layers of sheathing membrane shall be applied beneath the cladding. (See Article 9.23.17.1. and Note A-9.27.3.5.(1).)
2) All joints in the sheathing membrane required in Sentence (1) shall occur over framing, and the membrane shall be fastened to the framing with roofing nails or staples spaced not more than 150 mm along the edges of the outer layer of sheathing membrane.
3) Wall sheathing is permitted to be used in lieu of one layer of sheathing membrane required in Sentence (1), and its thickness need not conform to Table 9.23.17.2.-A.
Face Sealed Cladding
(See Note A-9.27.3.6.)
1) Sheathing membrane is permitted to be omitted beneath cladding when the joints in the cladding are formed to effectively prevent the passage of wind and rain in conformance with Sentences (2) or (3), as applicable.
2) Cladding consisting of sheets of plywood, hardboard, OSB, waferboard or fibre cement is considered to meet the requirements of Sentence (1), provided the cladding is applied so that
a) all edges are directly supported by framing,
b) the vertical joints between adjacent sheets are sealed and
i) covered with battens, ii) shiplapped, or
iii) otherwisematchedtoprovideweathertightjoints,and
c) the horizontal joints between adjacent sheets are sealed and
i) shiplapped, or
ii) otherwisematchedtoprovideweathertightjoints.
3) Metal siding consisting of sheets of metal is considered to meet the requirements of Sentence (1) where the joints between sheets are of the locked-seam type.
Flashing Materials
1) Flashing shall consist of not less than
a) 1.73 mm thick sheet lead,
b) 0.33 mm thick galvanized steel,
c) 0.46 mm thick copper,
d) 0.46 mm thick zinc,
e) 0.48 mm thick aluminum, or
f) 1.02 mm thick vinyl.
Flashing Installation
1) Except as provided in Sentence (2), flashing shall be installed at
a) every horizontal junction between cladding elements,
9.27.3.6.
9.27.3.7.
9.27.3.8.
2)
a) b)
Where insulating sheathing is installed as provided in Sentence (1), sheathing panels subject to moisture deterioration shall be sealed at all joints, and
the joints of sheathing panels not subject to moisture deterioration shall be
i) sealed at all joints, or
ii) lapped or tongue and groove, and detailed to ensure
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Division B
9-181
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 9.27.4.1.
Division B
9.27.4. 9.27.4.1.
(See Note A-9.27.3.8.(1).)
2) Flashing need not be installed as described in Sentence (1)
a) where the upper cladding elements overlap the lower cladding elements by
not less than 25 mm,
b) where
i) thecladdingaboveandbelowthejointisinstalledoutboard of a drained and vented air space (see Clause 9.27.2.2.(1)(a)), and
ii) the horizontal detail is constructed so as to minimize the ingress of precipitation into the air space, or
c) at horizontal construction joints in stucco, where
i) thejointisfinishedwithanexpansion-contractionstrip,and
ii) thecladdingisinstalledoutboardofadrainedandvented air space (see Clause 9.27.2.2.(1)(a)).
3) Flashing shall be installed over exterior wall openings where the vertical distance from the bottom of the eave to the top of the trim is more than one-quarter of the horizontal overhang of the eave. (See Note A-9.27.3.8.(3).)
4) Flashing described in Sentences (1) and (3) shall
a) extend not less than 50 mm upward inboard of the sheathing membrane or
sheathing installed in lieu of the sheathing membrane (see Article 9.27.3.4.),
b) have a slope of not less than 6% toward the exterior after the expected
shrinkage of the building frame,
c) terminate at each end with an end-dam
i) withaheightinmillimetresnotlessthan25mmor1/10the value of the 1-in-5 driving rain wind pressure in Pa, and
ii) at the height defined in Subclause (c)(i), extending to the face of the adjacent cladding,
d) lap not less than 10 mm vertically over the building element below, and
e) terminate in a drip offset not less than 5 mm outward from the outer face of
the building element below.
(See Note A-9.27.3.8.(4).)
5) Where the sills of windows and doors installed in exterior walls are not self-flashing, flashing shall be installed between the underside of the window or door and the wall construction below. (See Note A-9.27.3.8.(5).)
Sealants Required Sealants
1) Sealant shall be provided where required to prevent the entry of water into the structure.
2) Sealant shall be provided between masonry, siding or stucco and the adjacent door and window frames or trim, including sills, unless such locations are completely protected from the entry of rain.
3) Sealant shall be provided at vertical joints between different cladding materials unless the joint is suitably lapped or flashed to prevent the entry of rain. (See Articles 9.7.6.2., 9.20.13.12. and 9.28.1.5.)
Materials
9.27.4.2.
9-182 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
b) c)
every horizontal offset in the cladding, and
every horizontal line where the cladding substrates change and where
i) the substrates differ sufficiently for stresses to be concentrated along that line, or
ii) theinstallationofthecladdingonthelowersubstratemay compromise the drainage of moisture from behind the cladding above.
1)
a)
Sealants shall be
a non-hardening type suitable for exterior use,
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
9.27.5.4.
9.27.5. 9.27.5.1.
9.27.5.2.
9.27.5.3.
9.27.5.4.
b) c)
2) Sealants shall conform to
a) ASTM C 834, “Latex Sealants,”
b) ASTM C 920, “Elastomeric Joint Sealants,”
c) ASTM C 1184, “Structural Silicone Sealants,” or
d) ASTM C 1311, “Solvent Release Sealants.”
3) Backer rod shall conform to ASTM C 1330, “Cylindrical Sealant Backing for Use with Cold Liquid-Applied Sealants.” (See Note A-9.27.4.2.(1).)
Attachment of Cladding Attachment
1) Except as permitted by Sentences (2) to (4), cladding shall be fastened to the framing members or furring members, or to blocking between the framing members.
2) Vertical lumber and stucco lath or reinforcing are permitted to be attached to sheathing only where the sheathing consists of not less than
a) 14.3 mm lumber,
b) 12.5 mm plywood, or
c) 12.5 mm OSB or waferboard.
3) Vertically applied metal siding and wood shingles and shakes are permitted to be attached to the sheathing only where the sheathing consists of not less than
a) 14.3 mm lumber,
b) 7.5 mm plywood, or
c) 7.5 mm OSB or waferboard.
4) Where wood shingles or shakes are applied to sheathing which is not suitable for attaching the shingles or shakes, the shingles or shakes are permitted to be attached to a wood lath not less than 38 mm by 9.5 mm thick securely nailed to the framing and applied as described in Article 9.27.7.5.
Blocking
1) Blocking for the attachment of cladding shall be not less than 38 mm by 38 mm
lumber securely nailed to the framing and spaced not more than 600 mm o.c.
Furring
1) Except as permitted in Sentence 9.27.5.1.(4), furring for the attachment of
cladding shall be not less than 19 mm by 38 mm lumber when applied over sheathing.
2) When applied without sheathing, furring referred to in Sentence (1) shall be not less than
a) 19 mm by 64 mm lumber on supports spaced not more than 400 mm o.c., or b) 19 mm by 89 mm lumber on supports spaced not more than 600 mm o.c.
3) Furring referred to in Sentence (1) shall be a) securely fastened to the framing, and
b) spaced not more than 600 mm o.c.
Size and Spacing of Fasteners
1) Nail or staple size and spacing for the attachment of cladding and trim shall
conform to Table 9.27.5.4.
selected for their ability to resist the effects of weathering, and
compatible with and adhere to the substrate to which they are applied. (See Note A-9.27.4.2.(1).)
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Amended Page Division B 9-183
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 9.27.5.5.
Division B
Wood trim
Type of Cladding
Minimum Nail or Staple Length, mm
51 51
38
51 51
32 32
38 51
Minimum Number
Maximum Nail or Staple Spacing, mm o.c.
600 600
600 (nailed to framing) 400 (nailed to sheathing only)
— —
— —
150 (along edges)
300 (along intermediate supports)
Lumber siding or horizontal siding made from sheet material
Metal cladding
Wood shakes
up to 200 mm in width over 200 mm in width
Wood shingles
up to 200 mm in width over 200 mm in width
Panel or sheet type cladding up to 7 mm thick
more than 7 mm thick
9.27.5.5.
9.27.5.6.
9.27.5.7.
9.27.6. 9.27.6.1.
9.27.6.2.
Fastener Materials
1) Nails or staples for the attachment of cladding and wood trim shall be
corrosion-resistant and shall be compatible with the cladding material.
Expansion and Contraction
1) Fasteners for metal or vinyl cladding shall be positioned to permit expansion
and contraction of the cladding.
Penetration of Fasteners
1) Fasteners for shakes and shingles shall penetrate through the nail-holding base
or not less than 19 mm into the framing.
2) Fasteners for cladding other than that described in Sentence (1) shall penetrate through the nail-holding base or not less than 25 mm into the framing.
Lumber Siding Materials
1) Lumber siding shall be sound, free of knot holes, loose knots, through checks or splits.
Thickness and Width
1) Drop, rustic, novelty, lapped board and vertical wood siding shall be not less
than 14.3 mm thick and not more than 286 mm wide.
2) Bevel siding shall be
a) not less than 5 mm thick at the top, and
b) not less than
i) 12mmthickatthebuttforsiding184mmorlessinwidth, and
ii) 14.3mmthickatthebuttforsidingwiderthan184mm.
3) Bevel siding shall be not more than 286 mm wide.
9-184 Division B
Amended Page National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Table 9.27.5.4. Attachment of Cladding Forming Part of Sentence 9.27.5.4.(1)
of Nails or
— —
—
2 3
2 3
— —
Staples
        © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 9.27.7.6.
9.27.6.3.
9.27.7. 9.27.7.1.
Joints
1) Lumber siding shall prevent water from entering at the joints by the use of
lapped or matched joints or by vertical wood battens.
2) Siding shall overlap not less than 1 mm per 16 mm width of lumber, but not less than
a) 9.5 mm for matched siding,
b) 25 mm for lapped bevel siding, or
c) 12 mm for vertical battens.
Wood Shingles and Shakes Materials
1) Shingles and shakes shall conform to
a) CSA O118.1, “Western Red Cedar Shakes and Shingles,” or
b) CSA O118.2, “Eastern White Cedar Shingles.”
2) Western cedar shakes shall be not less than No. 1 or Handsplit grade, and western cedar shingles not less than No. 2 grade, except that No. 3 grade may be used for undercoursing.
3) Eastern white cedar shingles shall be at least B (clear) grade, except that C grade may be used for the lower course of double course applications.
Width
1) Shingles and shakes shall be not less than 65 mm or more than 350 mm wide.
Fasteners
1) Shingles or shakes shall be fastened with nails or staples located approximately 20 mm from each edge and not less than 25 mm above the exposure line for single-course applications, or approximately 50 mm above the butt for double-course applications.
Offsetting of Joints
1) In single-course application, joints in succeeding courses shall be offset not less
than 40 mm so that joints in any 2 of 3 consecutive courses are staggered.
2) In double-course application, joints in the outer course shall be offset from joints in the under-course by not less than 40 mm, and joints in succeeding courses shall be offset not less than 40 mm.
Fastening to Lath
1) When lath is used with double-course application [see Sentence 9.27.5.1.(4)], it
shall be spaced according to the exposure and securely fastened to the framing.
2) The butts of the under-course of the application referred to in Sentence (1) shall rest on the top edge of the lath.
3) The outer course of the application referred to in Sentence (1) shall be fastened to the lath with nails of sufficient length to penetrate through the lath.
4) The butts of the shingles or shakes shall be so located that they project not less than 12 mm below the bottom edge of the lath referred to in Sentence (1).
5) If wood lath is not used, the butts of the under-course shingles or shakes of the application referred to in Sentence (1) shall be located 12 mm above the butts of the outer course.
Exposure and Thickness
1) The exposure and butt thickness of shingles and shakes shall conform to
Table 9.27.7.6.
9.27.7.2.
9.27.7.3.
9.27.7.4.
9.27.7.5.
9.27.7.6.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-185
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 9.27.8.1.
Division B
Shake or Shingle
400 450 600
Length, mm
Table 9.27.7.6.
Exposure and Thickness of Wood Shingles and Shakes Forming Part of Sentence 9.27.7.6.(1)
Maximum Exposure, mm
Minimum Butt Thickness, mm
10 11 13
9.27.8. 9.27.8.1.
9.27.8.2.
Plywood
Material Standards
Spacing of Supports, mm
9.27.8.3.
9.27.8.4.
9.27.8.5.
9-186 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
400 600
Single Coursing
190 216 292
Double Coursing
305 356 406
1) Plywood cladding shall be exterior type conforming to
a) ANSI/HPVA HP-1, “Hardwood and Decorative Plywood,”
b) CSA O121, “Douglas Fir Plywood,”
c) CSA O151, “Canadian Softwood Plywood,” or
d) CSA O153, “Poplar Plywood.”
Thickness
1) Plywood cladding shall be not less than 6 mm thick when applied directly
to sheathing.
2) When applied directly to framing or over furring strips, plywood cladding thickness shall conform to Table 9.27.8.2.
Table 9.27.8.2.
Minimum Plywood Cladding Thickness Forming Part of Sentence 9.27.8.2.(2)
Minimum Thickness, mm
Face Grain Parallel to Supports Face Grain Right Angles to Supports
8 6 11 8
The thickness of grooved or textured plywood cladding shall be measured at the point of least thickness.
Edge Treatment
1) The edges of plywood cladding shall be treated with a suitable paint or sealer.
Panel Cladding
1) Plywood applied in panels shall have all edges supported.
2) Not less than a 2 mm gap shall be provided between panels referred to in
Sentence (1).
3) Vertical joints in cladding referred to in Sentence (1) shall be protected with batten strips or sealant when the plywood joints are not matched.
4) Horizontal joints in cladding referred to in Sentence (1) shall be lapped not less than 25 mm or shall be suitably flashed.
Lapped Strip Siding
1) Plywood applied in horizontal lapped strips shall have not less than a 2 mm
gap provided at the butted ends, which shall be caulked.
3)
        © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 9.27.10.2.
9.27.9. 9.27.9.1.
9.27.9.2.
2) The horizontal joints of siding described in Sentence (1) shall be lapped not less than 25 mm.
3) Wedges shall be inserted under all vertical butt joints and at all corners when horizontal lapped plywood is applied without sheathing.
Hardboard Material Standards
1) Factory-finished hardboard cladding shall conform to CAN/CGSB-11.5-M, “Hardboard, Precoated, Factory Finished, for Exterior Cladding.”
2) Hardboard cladding that is not factory finished shall conform to Types 1, 2 or 5 in CAN/CGSB-11.3-M, “Hardboard.”
Thickness
1) Type 1 or 2 hardboard cladding shall be not less than
a) 6 mm thick when applied over sheathing that provides continuous support,
and
b) 7.5 mm thick when applied over furring or framing members not more
than 400 mm o.c.
2) Type 5 hardboard cladding shall be not less than 9 mm thick when applied over sheathing that provides continuous support or over furring or framing members spaced not more than 400 mm o.c.
3) Where hardboard cladding is grooved, the grooves shall not extend more than 1.5 mm into the minimum required thickness. (See Note A-9.27.9.2.(3).)
Panel Cladding
1) Hardboard cladding applied in panels shall have all edges supported with not
less than a 5 mm gap provided between sheets.
2) Vertical joints in cladding described in Sentence (1) shall be protected with batten strips or sealant when the joints are not matched.
3) Horizontal joints in cladding described in Sentence (1) shall be lapped not less than 25 mm or shall be suitably flashed.
Lapped Strip Siding
1) Hardboard applied in horizontal lapped strips shall have not less than a 5 mm gap provided at the butted ends, which shall be sealed or otherwise protected with suitable mouldings.
2) The horizontal joints of siding described in Sentence (1) shall overlap not less than 1 mm per 16 mm width of siding board but not less than 9.5 mm for matched joint siding or 25 mm for lapped siding.
Clearance
1) Not less than 3 mm clearance shall be provided between hardboard cladding
and door or window frames.
OSB and Waferboard Material Standard
1) OSB and waferboard cladding shall conform to CSA O437.0, “OSB and Waferboard.”
Thickness
1) OSB conforming to O-2 grade shall be not less than 6.0 mm thick where applied
directly to sheathing.
9.27.9.3.
9.27.9.4.
9.27.9.5.
9.27.10. 9.27.10.1.
9.27.10.2.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-187
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 9.27.10.3. Division B
9.27.10.3.
2) OSB conforming to O-2 grade applied directly to framing or over furring strips shall conform to the thickness shown for plywood in Table 9.27.8.2. (See Note A-9.27.10.2.(2).)
3) OSB conforming to O-1 grade and waferboard conforming to R-1 grade shall be not less than 7.9 mm thick where applied directly to sheathing.
4) Where applied directly to framing or over furring strips, OSB conforming to O-1 grade and waferboard conforming to R-1 grade shall be not less than
a) 9.5 mm thick on supports spaced not more than 400 mm o.c., and
b) 12.7 mm thick on supports spaced not more than 600 mm o.c.
Panel Cladding
1) OSB and waferboard applied in panels shall have all edges supported and
treated with a primer or sealer.
2) Not less than a 3 mm gap shall be provided between sheets in cladding described in Sentence (1).
3) Vertical joints in cladding described in Sentence (1) shall be protected with batten strips or sealant when the OSB and waferboard joints are not matched.
4) Horizontal joints in cladding described in Sentence (1) shall be lapped not less than 25 mm or shall be suitably flashed.
Clearance
1) Not less than a 3 mm clearance shall be provided between OSB and waferboard
cladding and door or window frames.
Metal
Material Standards
1) Horizontal and vertical strip steel siding, including flashing and trim accessories, shall conform to CAN/CGSB-93.4, “Galvanized Steel and Aluminum-Zinc Alloy Coated Steel Siding, Soffits and Fascia, Prefinished, Residential.”
2) Steel sheet cladding shall have a minimum thickness of 0.3 mm and conform to CAN/CGSB-93.3-M, “Prefinished Galvanized and Aluminum-Zinc Alloy Steel Sheet for Residential Use.”
3) Horizontal and vertical strip aluminum siding, including flashing and trim accessories, shall conform to CAN/CGSB-93.2-M, “Prefinished Aluminum Siding, Soffits, and Fascia, for Residential Use.” (See Note A-9.27.11.1.(3) and (4).)
4) Aluminum sheet cladding shall conform to CAN/CGSB-93.1-M, “Sheet, Aluminum Alloy, Prefinished, Residential,” and shall have a thickness of not less than 0.58 mm, except that siding supported by backing or sheathing shall have a thickness of not less than 0.46 mm. (See Note A-9.27.11.1.(3) and (4).)
Vinyl Siding Material Standard
1) Vinyl siding, including flashing and trim accessories, shall conform to CAN/CGSB-41.24, “Rigid Vinyl Siding, Soffits and Fascia.”
Attachment
1) The attachment of vinyl siding shall conform to the requirements in
Subsection 9.27.5. for metal siding.
9.27.10.4.
9.27.11. 9.27.11.1.
9.27.12. 9.27.12.1.
9.27.12.2.
9-188 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 9.28.1.4.
9.27.13. 9.27.13.1.
Exterior Insulation Finish Systems Application
1) Except as provided in Sentence (2), this Subsection applies to exterior insulation finish systems (EIFS) that
a) are covered in the scope of CAN/ULC-S716.1, “Exterior Insulation and Finish Systems (EIFS) - Materials and Systems,” and
b) have a geometrically defined drainage cavity with a minimum cavity depth of 10 mm and an open area equal to not less than 13% of the area of a full-size EIFS panel.
(See Note A-9.27.13.1.(1).)
2) EIFS that are not covered by Sentence (1) shall comply with Part 5.
Materials
1) The materials used in EIFS shall conform to CAN/ULC-S716.1, “Exterior
Insulation and Finish Systems (EIFS) - Materials and Systems.”
2) The substrate on which the EIFS is installed shall
a) be compatible with that particular system (see Note A-9.27.13.2.(2)(a)), and
b) comply with the structural requirements for sheathing materials stated
in Section 9.23.
Design and Installation
1) The design and installation of EIFS on the substrate described in Sentence 9.27.13.2.(2) shall comply with
a) CAN/ULC-S716.2, “Exterior Insulation and Finish Systems (EIFS) - Installation of EIFS Components and Water Resistive Barrier,” and
b) CAN/ULC-S716.3, “Exterior Insulation and Finish System (EIFS) - Design Application.”
9.27.13.2.
9.27.13.3.
Section 9.28. Stucco
9.28.1. 9.28.1.1.
9.28.1.2.
9.28.1.3.
9.28.1.4.
General
Sheathing beneath Stucco
1) Sheathing shall be provided beneath stucco applied over wood-frame walls except as permitted in Article 9.28.4.2.
2) Where applied beneath stucco, sheathing shall conform to Subsection 9.23.17. Lath and Reinforcing
1) Stucco lath or reinforcing shall be used to attach stucco to any substrate other than masonry.
2) Stucco lath or reinforcing shall be used to attach stucco to masonry where
a) the masonry is soft-burned tile or brick of less strength than the stucco, or
b) the masonry surface is not sound, clean and sufficiently rough to provide
a good key.
3) Stucco applied over masonry chimneys shall be reinforced.
Concrete Masonry Units
1) Stucco finish shall not be applied over concrete masonry units less than one
month old unless the units have been cured by the autoclave process.
Clearance over Ground Level
1) Stucco shall be not less than 200 mm above finished ground level except when
it is applied over concrete or masonry.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-189
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 9.28.1.5. Division B
9.28.1.5.
9.28.2. 9.28.2.1.
9.28.2.2.
Flashing and Caulking
1) Flashing and caulking used with stucco shall conform to Subsections 9.27.3. and 9.27.4., except that if aluminum flashing is used, it shall be separated from the stucco by an impervious membrane or coating. (See Article 9.7.6.2. for caulking around window frames.)
Stucco Materials Portland Cement
1) Portland cement shall conform to CSA A3001, “Cementitious Materials for Use in Concrete.”
Aggregate
1) Aggregate shall be clean, well-graded natural sand or sand manufactured from crushed stone, gravel or air-cooled blast furnace slag and shall contain no significant amounts of deleterious material.
9.28.2.3.
9.28.3. 9.28.3.1.
9.28.3.2.
Water 1)
Water shall be clean and free of significant amounts of deleterious material.
9-190 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Sieve Sizes, mm
% Aggregate Passing Sieve
2) Aggregate grading shall conform to Table 9.28.2.2.
4 — 2 — 1 90
0.5 60 0.25 30
0.125 5
Table 9.28.2.2. Aggregate Grading for Stucco Forming Part of Sentence 9.28.2.2.(2)
Maximum
Minimum
100 90 60 45 10 —
Fasteners Materials
1) Fasteners for stucco lath or reinforcing shall be corrosion-resistant and of a material other than aluminum.
Nails and Staples
1) Nails for stucco lath or reinforcing shall be not less than 3.2 mm diam with a
head diameter of not less than 11.1 mm.
2) Staples for stucco lath or reinforcing shall be not less than 1.98 mm diam or thickness.
3) Staples and nails for attaching stucco lath or reinforcing to vertical surfaces shall be of sufficient length to penetrate 25 mm into framing members or to the full depth of the sheathing where the sheathing is used for attachment.
4) On horizontal surfaces nails for stucco lath or reinforcing shall be not less than 38 mm long.
    © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
9.28.4.6.
9.28.4. 9.28.4.1.
9.28.4.2.
9.28.4.3.
Location
Vertical surfaces
Horizontal surfaces(1)
Notes to Table 9.28.4.3.:
(1) See Note A-Table 9.28.4.3.
9.28.4.4.
9.28.4.5.
Self-Furring Devices
1) Stucco lath shall be held not less than 6 mm away from the backing by means
of suitable self-furring devices.
Application of Stucco Lath
1) Stucco lath shall be applied with the long dimension horizontal.
2) Horizontal and vertical joints in stucco lath shall be lapped not less than 50 mm.
3) End joints of stucco lath shall be staggered and shall occur over framing
members.
4) External corners of stucco lath shall be reinforced with a vertical strip of lath or reinforcing extending not less than 150 mm on both sides of the corner, or the lath or reinforcing shall extend around corners not less than 150 mm.
Fastening
1) Stucco lath shall be fastened in conformance with Subsection 9.27.5.
2) Fasteners on vertical surfaces shall be spaced not more than
a) 150 mm o.c. vertically and 400 mm o.c. horizontally, or
b) 100 mm o.c. vertically and 600 mm o.c. horizontally.
3) Nailing patterns other than those required in Sentence (2) are permitted to be used provided there are at least 20 fasteners per square metre of wall surface.
9.28.4.6.
Stucco Lath Materials
1) Rib lath or expanded metal stucco mesh shall be
a) copper-alloy steel coated with rust-inhibitive paint after fabrication, or
b) galvanized.
2) Woven or welded wire mesh shall be galvanized. No Sheathing Required
1) Sheathing need not be provided beneath stucco where not less than 1.19 mm diam galvanized wire is applied horizontally to the framing at vertical intervals of not more than 150 mm, or where paper-backed welded wire metal lath is used.
Stucco Lath Specifications
1)
Stucco lath shall conform to Table 9.28.4.3.
Type of Lath
Welded or woven wire
Stucco mesh reinforcing (expanded metal)
9.5 mm rib lath Cedar lath
Table 9.28.4.3.
Stucco Lath
Forming Part of Sentence 9.28.4.3.(1)
Minimum Diam of Wire, mm Maximum Mesh Opening Minimum Mass, kg/m2
1.15 25mm — 1.30 38 mm — 1.50 51 mm —
— 25.8 cm2 0.98
— — 1.84 — — —
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-191
      © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 9.28.5.1.
Division B
9.28.5. 9.28.5.1.
600 mm o.c.
Stucco Mixes Mixes
Portland Cement
Masonry Cement
Aggregate
3.25 to 4 parts per part of cementitious material
9.28.5.2.
9.28.5.3.
9.28.6. 9.28.6.1.
9.28.6.2.
9.28.6.3.
9.28.6.4.
Pigments
1) Pigment if used shall consist of pure mineral oxides inert to the action of sun,
lime and cement.
2) Pigment shall not exceed 6% of the Portland cement by weight.
Mixing
1) Materials shall be thoroughly mixed before and after water is added.
2) Stucco shall be applied not later than 3 h after the initial mixing.
Stucco Application
Low Temperature Conditions
1) The base for stucco shall be maintained above freezing.
2) Stucco shall be maintained at a temperature of not less than 10°C during
application, and for not less than 48 h afterwards.
Number of Coats and Total Thickness
1) Stucco shall be applied with at least 2 base coats and one finish coat, providing a total thickness of not less than 15 mm, measured from the face of the lath or the face of the masonry where no lath is used.
First Coat
1) The first coat shall be not less than 6 mm thick, measured from the face of the
lath or masonry, fully embedding the lath.
2) The surface of the first coat shall be scored to provide a key with the second coat.
Second Coat
1) The second coat shall be not less than 6 mm thick.
2) The surface of the second coat shall be lightly roughened to provide a key with
the finish coat if the finish coat is other than stone dash.
9-192 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
4) Fasteners on horizontal surfaces shall be spaced not more than
a) 150 mm o.c. along the framing members when members are spaced not
more than 400 mm o.c., and
b) 100 mm o.c. along members when members are spaced not more than
1)
Stucco mixes shall conform to Table 9.28.5.1.
— 11—
1
0.25 to 1
Table 9.28.5.1.
Stucco Mixes
Forming Part of Sentence 9.28.5.1.(1)
Materials, volume Lime
     © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 9.29.3.2.
9.28.6.5.
Finish Coat
1) When the finish coat is other than stone dash, the base shall be dampened but
not saturated before the finish coat is applied.
2) The thickness of the finish coat shall be not less than 3 mm.
3) When a stone dash finish is used, the stone shall be partially embedded in the
second coat before the second coat starts to set or stiffen.
Section 9.29. Interior Wall and Ceiling Finishes
9.29.1. 9.29.1.1.
9.29.2. 9.29.2.1.
9.29.2.2.
9.29.3. 9.29.3.1.
General
Fire Protection and Sound Control
1) A wall or ceiling finish shall also conform to the appropriate requirements in Sections 9.10. and 9.11., in addition to the requirements in this Section.
Waterproof Wall Finish Where Required
1) Waterproof finish shall be provided to a height of not less than
a) 1.8 m above the floor in shower stalls,
b) 1.2 m above the rims of bathtubs equipped with showers, and
c) 400 mm above the rims of bathtubs not equipped with showers.
Materials
1) Waterproof finish shall consist of ceramic, plastic or metal tile, sheet vinyl,
tempered hardboard, laminated thermosetting decorative sheets or linoleum.
Wood Furring
Size and Spacing of Furring
1) Wood furring for the attachment of wall and ceiling finishes shall conform to Table 9.29.3.1.
Table 9.29.3.1.
Size and Spacing of Furring Forming Part of Sentence 9.29.3.1.(1)
Maximum Spacing of Furring, mm
Minimum Size of Furring, mm Maximum Spacing of Furring Supports 400 mm o.c.
19 x 38 19 x 38 19 x 64
9.29.3.2.
Fastening
1) Furring shall be fastened to the framing or to wood blocks with not less than
51 mm nails.
300 400 600
Continuous Supports
19 x 38 19 x 38 19 x 38
600 mm o.c.
19 x 64 19 x 64 19 x 89
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-193
     © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 9.29.4.1.
Division B
9.29.4. 9.29.4.1.
9.29.5. 9.29.5.1.
9.29.5.2.
9.29.5.3.
Plastering Application
1) Application of plaster wall and ceiling finishes, including installation of metal or gypsum lath, shall conform to CSA A82.30-M, “Interior Furring, Lathing and Gypsum Plastering.”
Gypsum Board Finish (Taped Joints) Application
1) The requirements for application of gypsum board in this Subsection apply to the single layer application of gypsum board to wood furring or framing using nails or screws.
2) Gypsum board applications not described in this Subsection shall conform to CSA A82.31-M, “Gypsum Board Application.”
Materials
1) Gypsum products shall conform to
a) ASTM C 1178/C 1178M, “Coated Glass Mat Water-Resistant Gypsum
Backing Panel,” or
b) ASTM C 1396/C 1396M, “Gypsum Board,” except that the flame-spread rating
of gypsum board shall be determined in accordance with CAN/ULC-S102, “Test for Surface Burning Characteristics of Building Materials and Assemblies.”
Maximum Spacing of Supports
1) Maximum spacing of supports for gypsum board applied as a single layer
shall conform to Table 9.29.5.3.
Table 9.29.5.3.
Spacing of Supports for Gypsum Board Forming Part of Sentence 9.29.5.3.(1)
Maximum Spacing of Supports, mm o.c. Orientation of Board Ceilings
Thickness, mm
to Framing Walls
Gypsum board conforming to Sentence 9.29.5.2.(1) (except Sections 9 and 12 of ASTM C 1396/C 1396M)
12.7
9.29.5.4.
— perpendicular 600 600 600
Support of Insulation
1) Gypsum board supporting insulation shall be not less than 12.7 mm thick.
9-194 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
9.5 parallel perpendicular
12.7 parallel perpendicular
———
—
—
— 600 600 600
15.9 parallel perpendicular
600 400 Gypsum ceiling board conforming to Clause 9.29.5.2.(1)(b) (only Section 12 of ASTM C 1396/C 1396M)
Painted Finish Water-Based Texture Finish
400                     400
600                     400
600                     600                     400
parallel 600 400
               © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 9.29.5.9.
9.29.5.5.
Length of Fasteners
1) The length of fasteners for gypsum board shall conform to Table 9.29.5.5., except that lesser depths of penetration are permitted for assemblies required to have a fire-resistance rating provided it can be shown, on the basis of fire tests, that such depths are adequate for the required rating.
Table 9.29.5.5.
Fastener Penetration into Wood Supports Forming Part of Sentence 9.29.5.5.(1)
Required Fire-Resistance Rating of Assembly
Walls
Minimum Penetration, mm
Screws Nails
Ceilings
9.29.5.6.
9.29.5.7.
9.29.5.8.
9.29.5.9.
Nails
Screws
15 20
45min 20 20 30 30 1h 20 20 45 45 1.5h 20 20 60 60
Nails
1) Nails for fastening gypsum board to wood supports shall conform to
a) ASTM F 1667, “Driven Fasteners: Nails, Spikes, and Staples,” or
b) CSA B111, “Wire Nails, Spikes and Staples.”
Screws
1) Screws for fastening gypsum board to wood supports shall conform to ASTM C 1002, “Steel Self-Piercing Tapping Screws for the Application of Gypsum Panel Products or Metal Plaster Bases to Wood Studs or Steel Studs.”
Spacing of Nails
1) For single-layer application on a ceiling, nails shall be spaced
a) not more than 180 mm o.c. on ceiling supports, or
b) every 300 mm o.c. along ceiling supports, in pairs about 50 mm apart.
2) Where the ceiling sheets are supported by the wall sheets around the perimeter of the ceiling, this support may be considered as equivalent to nailing at this location.
3) Except as required by Sentence (4), for single-layer application on walls, nails shall be spaced
a) not more than 200 mm o.c. on vertical wall supports, or
b) every 300 mm o.c. along vertical wall supports, in pairs about 50 mm apart.
4) For single-layer application on walls, where gypsum board provides required bracing in braced wall panels, lateral support for studs, or fire protection, nails shall be spaced not more than 200 mm o.c. on
a) vertical wall supports, and
b) top and bottom plates.
(See Article 9.23.10.2. and Section 9.10.)
5) The uppermost nails on vertical wall supports shall be not more than 200 mm below the ceiling.
6) Nails shall be located not less than 10 mm from the side or edge of the board.
7) Nails shall be driven so that the heads do not puncture the paper.
Spacing of Screws
1) For single-layer application on a ceiling, screws shall be spaced not more than
300 mm o.c. on ceiling supports.
Not required 20
15
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-195
     © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 9.29.5.10. Division B
9.29.5.10.
9.29.6. 9.29.6.1.
2) Where the ceiling sheets are supported by the wall sheets around the perimeter of the ceiling, this support may be considered as equivalent to screwing at this location.
3) Except as required by Sentence (4), for single-layer application on walls, screws shall be spaced
a) not more than 300 mm o.c. on vertical wall supports where the supports are more than 400 mm o.c., or
b) not more than 400 mm o.c. on vertical wall supports where the supports are not more than 400 mm o.c.
4) Except as provided in Sentence (5), for single-layer application on walls, where gypsum board provides required bracing in braced wall panels, lateral support for studs, or fire protection, screws shall be spaced not more than 300 mm o.c. on
a) vertical wall supports, and
b) top and bottom plates.
(See Article 9.23.10.2. and Section 9.10.)
5) Where a fire-resistance rating is determined based on Table 9.10.3.1.-A, Sentence (4) need not apply for the purpose of fire protection.
6) Screws shall be located not less than 10 mm from the edge of the board.
7) Screws shall be driven so that the heads do not puncture the paper.
Low Temperature Conditions
1) In cold weather, heat shall be provided to maintain a temperature not below 10°C for 48 h prior to taping and finishing and maintained for not less than 48 h thereafter.
Plywood Finish Thickness
1) Except as provided in Sentences (2) and (3), the minimum thickness of plywood interior finish shall conform to Table 9.29.6.1.
Table 9.29.6.1.
Thickness of Plywood Interior Finish Forming Part of Articles 9.29.6.1. and 9.29.6.2.
Minimum Thickness, mm(1)
Maximum Spacing of Supports, mm o.c.
On Supports with no Horizontal Blocking
On Supports with Blocking at Vertical Intervals not Exceeding 1.2 m
400 4.7 4.0 600 8.0 4.7
Notes to Table 9.29.6.1.:
(1) Thickness limits shall apply to the net effective thickness (NET) of grooved, striated, textured and/or embossed panels and to the actual thickness of flat panels.
9.29.6.2.
2) A manufacturing tolerance of −0.4 mm may be applied to the thicknesses listed in Table 9.29.6.1.
3) No minimum thickness is required where plywood is applied over continuous backing.
Grooved Plywood
1) Except as permitted in Sentence (2), where plywood for interior finish is grooved, the grooves shall not extend through the face ply and into the plies below the face ply unless the groove is supported by framing or furring.
2) If the grain of the face ply is at right angles to the supporting members, the groove is permitted to extend into plies below the face ply provided the thickness of
9-196 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
    © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 9.29.8.3.
9.29.6.3.
9.29.6.4.
9.29.7. 9.29.7.1.
9.29.7.2.
9.29.7.3.
9.29.7.4.
9.29.8. 9.29.8.1.
9.29.8.2.
9.29.8.3.
the plywood exceeds the value shown in Table 9.29.6.1. by an amount equal to not less than the depth of penetration of the grooves into the plies below the face ply.
Nails and Staples
1) Except as provided in Sentence (2), nails for attaching plywood finishes shall not be less than 38 mm casing or finishing nails spaced not more than 150 mm o.c. along edge supports and 300 mm o.c. along intermediate supports, except that staples providing equivalent lateral resistance may also be used.
2) Where plywood finish provides required bracing in braced wall panels, the plywood shall be fastened in accordance with the fastening requirements for sheathing stated in Sentence 9.23.3.5.(2).
Edge Support
1) All plywood edges shall be supported by furring, blocking or framing.
Hardboard Finish Material Standard
1) Hardboard shall conform to CAN/CGSB-11.3-M, “Hardboard.” Thickness
1) Hardboard shall be not less than
a) 3 mm thick where applied over continuous backing,
b) 6 mm thick when applied over supports spaced not more than 400 mm
o.c., and
c) 9 mm thick when applied over supports spaced not more than 600 mm o.c.
Nails
1) Nails for fastening hardboard shall be casing or finishing nails not less than 38 mm long, spaced not more than 150 mm o.c. along edge supports and 300 mm o.c. along intermediate supports.
Edge Support
1) All hardboard edges shall be supported by furring, blocking or framing where
the backing is not continuous.
Insulating Fibreboard Finish Material Standard
1) Insulating fibreboard shall conform to CAN/ULC-S706.1, “Wood Fibre Insulating Boards for Buildings.”
Thickness
1) Insulating fibreboard sheets shall be not less than 11.1 mm thick on supports
not more than 400 mm o.c.
2) Insulating fibreboard tile shall be not less than 12.7 mm thick on supports spaced not more than 400 mm o.c.
Nails
1) Nails for fastening fibreboard sheets shall be not less than 2.6 mm shank diameter casing or finishing nails of sufficient length to penetrate not less than 20 mm into the supports.
2) Nails shall be spaced not more than 100 mm o.c. along edge supports and 200 mm o.c. along intermediate supports.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-197
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 9.29.8.4.
Division B
9.29.8.4.
9.29.9. 9.29.9.1.
9.29.9.2.
Edge Support
1) All fibreboard edges shall be supported by blocking, furring or framing.
Particleboard, OSB or Waferboard Finish
Material Standard
1) Particleboard finish shall conform to ANSI A208.1, “Particleboard.”
2) OSB or waferboard finish shall conform to
a) CSA O325, “Construction Sheathing,” or
b) CSA O437.0, “OSB and Waferboard.”
Minimum Thickness
1) Except as provided in Sentences (2) and (3), the minimum thickness of O-2 grade OSB used as an interior finish shall conform to that shown for plywood in Table 9.29.6.1.
2) Thicknesses listed in Table 9.29.6.1. shall permit a manufacturing tolerance of −0.4 mm.
3) No minimum thickness is required where O-2 grade OSB is applied over continuous backing.
4) OSB conforming to O-1 grade, waferboard conforming to R-1 grade and particleboard shall be
a) not less than 6.35 mm thick on supports not more than 400 mm o.c.,
b) not less than 9.5 mm thick on supports not more than 600 mm o.c., and
c) not less than 6.35 mm thick on supports not more than 600 mm o.c. in walls where blocking is provided at midwall height.
5) OSB conforming to CSA O325, “Construction Sheathing,” shall meet the minimum panel mark of
a) W16, on supports not more than 400 mm o.c.,
b) W24, on supports not more than 600 mm o.c., and
c) W16, on supports not more than 600 mm o.c. where blocking is provided at mid-wall height.
Nails
1) Except as provided in Sentence (2), nails for fastening particleboard, OSB or waferboard shall be not less than 38 mm casing or finishing nails spaced not more than 150 mm o.c. along edge supports and 300 mm o.c. along intermediate supports.
2) Where OSB or waferboard provides required bracing in braced wall panels, the OSB or waferboard shall be fastened in accordance with the fastening requirements for sheathing stated in Sentence 9.23.3.5.(2).
Edge Support
1) All particleboard, OSB or waferboard edges shall be supported by furring,
blocking or framing.
Wall Tile Finish
Tile Application
1) Ceramic tile shall be set in a mortar base or applied with an adhesive.
2) Plastic tile shall be applied with an adhesive.
Mortar Base
1) When ceramic tile is applied to a mortar base the cementitious material shall
consist of one part Portland cement to not more than one-quarter part lime by volume.
9.29.9.3.
9.29.9.4.
9.29.10. 9.29.10.1.
9.29.10.2.
9-198 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 9.30.2.1.
9.29.10.3.
9.29.10.4.
9.29.10.5.
2) The cementitious material described in Sentence (1) shall be mixed with not less than 3 nor more than 5 parts of aggregate per part of cementitious material by volume.
3) Mortar shall be applied over metal lath or masonry.
4) Ceramic tile applied to a mortar base shall be thoroughly soaked and pressed
into place forcing the mortar into the joints while the tile is wet.
Adhesives
1) Adhesives to attach ceramic and plastic tile shall be applied to the finish coat or brown coat of plaster that has been steel-trowelled to an even surface or to gypsum board or to masonry provided the masonry has an even surface.
Moisture-Resistant Backing
1) Ceramic and plastic tile installed on walls around bathtubs or showers shall be
applied over moisture-resistant backing.
Joints between Tiles and Bathtub
1) The joints between wall tiles and a bathtub shall be suitably caulked with material conforming to CAN/CGSB-19.22-M, “Mildew-Resistant Sealing Compound for Tubs and Tiles.”
Section 9.30. Flooring
9.30.1. 9.30.1.1.
9.30.1.2.
9.30.1.3.
9.30.1.4.
9.30.2. 9.30.2.1.
General
Required Finished Flooring
1) Finished flooring shall be provided in all residential occupancies. Water Resistance
1) Where water permeable finished flooring in bathrooms, kitchens, public entrance halls and laundry areas is supported by a subfloor of a type that would be damaged by water, such flooring shall be installed over a membrane with a water permeance not exceeding 18 ng/(Pa·s·m2) when tested in accordance with ASTM E 96/E 96M, “Water Vapor Transmission of Materials.” (See Note A-9.30.1.2.(1).)
Sleepers
1) Wood sleepers supporting finished flooring over a concrete base supported on the ground shall be not less than 19 mm by 38 mm and shall be treated with a wood preservative.
Finish Quality
1) Finished flooring shall have a surface that is smooth, even and free from
roughness or open defects.
Panel-Type Underlay Required Underlay
1) A panel-type underlay shall be provided under resilient flooring, parquet flooring, ceramic tile, felted-synthetic-fibre floor coverings or carpeting laid over lumber subflooring. (See Sentence 9.30.3.2.(1).)
2) Panel-type underlay shall be provided under resilient flooring, parquet flooring, felted-synthetic-fibre floor coverings or carpeting on panel-type subflooring whose edges are unsupported. (See Article 9.23.15.3.)
3) Panel-type underlay shall be provided under ceramic tile applied with adhesive.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-199
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 9.30.2.2.
Division B
9.30.2.2.
Materials and Thickness
1) Panel-type underlay shall be not less than 6 mm thick and shall conform to
a) ANSI A208.1, “Particleboard,”
b) CAN/CGSB-11.3-M, “Hardboard,”
c) ANSI/HPVA HP-1, “Hardwood and Decorative Plywood,”
d) CSA O121, “Douglas Fir Plywood,”
e) CSA O151, “Canadian Softwood Plywood,”
f) CSA O153, “Poplar Plywood,” or
g) CSA O437.0, “OSB and Waferboard.”
2) Panel-type underlay under ceramic tile applied with adhesive shall be not less than
a) 6 mm thick where the supports are spaced up to 300 mm o.c., and
b) 11 mm thick where the supports are spaced wider than 300 mm o.c.
Fastening
1) Panel-type underlay shall be fastened to the subfloor with staples, annular grooved flooring nails or spiral nails, spaced not more than 150 mm o.c. along the edges and 200 mm o.c. both ways at other locations.
2) Nails for panel-type underlay shall be not less than 19 mm long for 6 mm thick underlay and 22 mm long for 7.9 mm thick underlay.
3) Staples for panel-type underlay shall
a) have not less than a 1.2 mm shank diameter or thickness with a 4.7 mm
crown, and
b) be not less than
i) 22mmlongfor6mmunderlay,and
ii) 28mmlongfor7.9mmand9.5mmunderlay.
Joints Offset
1) Where panel-type underlay is required to be installed over plywood, OSB or waferboard, the joints in the underlay shall be offset not less than 200 mm from the joints in the underlying subfloor.
Surface Defects
1) Underlay beneath resilient or ceramic floors applied with an adhesive shall have all holes or open defects on the surface patched so that the defects will not be transmitted to the finished surface.
Wood Strip Flooring Thickness
1) The thickness of wood strip flooring shall conform to Table 9.30.3.1.
9.30.2.3.
9.30.2.4.
9.30.2.5.
9.30.3. 9.30.3.1.
Matched hardwood (interior use only)
400 7.9 600 7.9 400 19.0 600 19.0 400 — 600 —
Matched softwood
(interior or exterior use)
Square edge softwood (exterior use only)
9-200 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Type of Flooring
Table 9.30.3.1. Thickness of Wood Strip Flooring Forming Part of Sentence 9.30.3.1.(1)
Max. Joist Spacing, mm
Minimum Thickness of Flooring, mm
With Subfloor
No Subfloor
19.0 33.3 19.0 31.7 25.4 38.1
      © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 9.30.5.1.
9.30.3.2.
Strip Direction and End Joints
1) Wood strip flooring shall not be laid parallel to lumber subflooring unless a
separate underlay is provided.
2) If wood strip flooring is applied without a subfloor, it shall be laid at right angles to the joists so that the end joints are staggered and occur over supports or are end matched.
3) If the flooring is end matched, it shall be laid so that no 2 adjoining strips break joints in the same space between supports and each strip bears on no fewer than 2 supports.
Nailing
1) When nails are used, wood strip flooring shall be toe nailed or face nailed with not less than one nail per strip at the spacings shown in Table 9.30.3.3., except that face nailed strips more than 25 mm in width shall have at least 2 nails per strip.
Table 9.30.3.3.
Nailing of Wood Strip Flooring Forming Part of Sentence 9.30.3.3.(1)
Minimum Length of Flooring Nails, mm
38(1)
51 57 63 70 83
9.30.3.3.
Finish Floor Thickness, mm
7.9 11.1 19.0 25.4 31.7 38.1
Notes to Table 9.30.3.3.:
(1) See Article 9.30.3.4.
Maximum Spacing of Flooring Nails, mm
               200
               300
               400
               400
               600
               600
9.30.3.4.
9.30.4. 9.30.4.1.
9.30.5. 9.30.5.1.
2) Staples
Face nails shall be countersunk.
1) Staples are permitted to be used to fasten wood strip flooring not more than 7.9 mm in thickness provided the staples are not less than 29 mm long with a shank diameter of 1.19 mm and with 4.7 mm crowns.
Parquet Flooring Adhesive
1) Adhesive used to attach parquet block flooring shall be suitable for bonding wood to the applicable subfloor material.
Resilient Flooring Materials
1) Resilient flooring used on concrete slabs supported on ground shall consist of asphalt, rubber, unbacked vinyl or vinyl with an inorganic type backing.
2) Flooring described in Sentence (1) shall be attached to the base with a suitable waterproof and alkali-resistant adhesive.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Amended Page Division B 9-201
   © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 9.30.6.1.
Division B
9.30.6. 9.30.6.1.
Ceramic Tile Substrate
1) Ceramic tile shall be set in a mortar bed or applied to a sound smooth base with a suitable adhesive.
2) Panel-type subfloor to which ceramic tile is to be applied with adhesive shall have its edges supported according to Article 9.23.15.3.
Section 9.31. Plumbing Facilities
9.31.1. 9.31.1.1.
9.31.2. 9.31.2.1.
9.31.2.2.
9.31.2.3.
9.31.3. 9.31.3.1.
9.31.3.2.
9.31.4. 9.31.4.1.
Scope Application
1) This Section applies to the plumbing facilities and plumbing systems within dwelling units.
2) In occupancies other than dwelling units, plumbing facilities, grab bars, floor drains, and floor and wall finishes around urinals shall conform to Subsection 3.7.2. (See also Section 3.8. regarding barrier-free plumbing facilities.)
3) Medical gas piping systems shall conform to Subsection 3.7.3. General
General
1) The construction, extension, alteration, renewal or repair of plumbing systems and
sewage disposal systems shall conform to Part 7.
Corrosion Protection
1) Metal pipes in contact with cinders or other corrosive material shall be protected
by a heavy coating of bitumen or other corrosion protection.
Grab Bars
1) When provided, grab bars shall be capable of resisting a load of not less than
1.3 kN applied vertically or horizontally.
Water Supply and Distribution Required Water Supply
1) Every dwelling unit shall be supplied with potable water. Required Connections
1) Where a piped water supply is available, piping for hot and cold water shall be connected to every kitchen sink, lavatory, bathtub, shower, slop sink and laundry area.
2) Piping for cold water shall be run to every water closet. Required Facilities
Required Fixtures
1) Except as permitted in Sentence (2), a kitchen sink, lavatory, bathtub or shower, and water closet shall be provided for every dwelling unit where a piped water supply is available.
2) A compost toilet operating without water and effluent, drain, overflow or other types of discharge is permitted to be installed in a single-family home provided
a) the home is an existing home,
9-202 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
9.31.6.2.
9.31.4.2.
9.31.4.3.
9.31.5. 9.31.5.1.
9.31.5.2.
9.31.6. 9.31.6.1.
9.31.6.2.
Hot Water Supply
1) Where a piped water supply is available a hot water supply shall be provided in
every dwelling unit. Floor Drains
1) A floor drain shall be provided in accordance with the requirements described in Article 3.7.2.7.
Sewage Disposal Building Sewer
1) Wastes from every plumbing fixture shall be piped to the building sewer. Discharge of Sewage
1) Building sewers shall discharge into a public sewage system where such system is available.
2) Where a public sewage system is not available, the building sewer shall discharge into a private sewage disposal system.
Service Water Heating Facilities Hot Water Supply
1) Where hot water is required to be supplied in accordance with Article 9.31.4.2., equipment shall
a) provide an adequate supply of hot water, and
b) be installed in conformance with the NPC.
Equipment and Installation
1) Service water heaters shall conform to appropriate provincial or territorial
requirements or, in the absence of such requirements, to the NPC.
2) The installation of service water heaters, including provisions for mounting, clearances and air supply, shall conform to appropriate provincial or territorial requirements or, in the absence of such requirements, to
a) CSA B51, “Boiler, Pressure Vessel, and Pressure Piping Code,”
b) CSA B139, “Installation Code for Oil-Burning Equipment,”
c) CSA B149.1, “Natural Gas and Propane Installation Code,”
d) CSA B365, “Installation Code for Solid-Fuel-Burning Appliances and Equipment,” or
e) CSA C22.1, “Canadian Electrical Code, Part I.”
3) Where the building is in a location where the spectral response acceleration, Sa(0.2), is greater than 0.55, fuel-fired storage-type service water heaters shall be secured to the structure to prevent overturning. (See Note A-9.31.6.2.(3).)
b) c)
d) e)
the home is covered in the Regulation respecting waste water disposal systems for isolated dwellings (chapter Q-2, r. 22),
the Regulation respecting waste water disposal systems for isolated dwellings (chapter Q-2, r. 22) requires or permits the installation of a compost toilet,
the toilet is mechanically ventilated and the ventilation duct is independent from any other ventilation duct and plumbing system, and
the toilet conforms to NSF/ANSI RR-331, “Non-liquid Saturated Treatment Systems.”
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-203
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 9.31.6.3.
Division B
9.31.6.3.
9.31.6.4.
9.31.6.5.
Corrosion-Resistant Coating
1) Where storage tanks for service water heaters are of steel, they shall be coated with zinc, vitreous enamel (glass lined), hydraulic cement or other corrosion-resistant material.
Fuel-Burning Heaters
1) Fuel-burning service water heaters shall be connected to a chimney flue conforming
to Section 9.21.
Heating Coils
1) Heating coils of service water heaters shall not be installed in a flue or in the
combustion chamber of a boiler or furnace heating a building. Section 9.32. Ventilation
9.32.1. 9.32.1.1.
9.32.1.2.
General Application
1) This Section applies to the ventilation of rooms and spaces in residential occupancies.
2) Ventilation of all other occupancies shall comply with Part 6.
3) A storage garage for up to 4 motor vehicles that serves a residential occupancy may
be considered to be part of that occupancy. Required Ventilation
1) Every residential occupancy shall incorporate
a) provisions for non-heating-season ventilation in accordance with
Subsection 9.32.2., and
b) except as required by Sentences (2) and (3), if supplied with electrical
power and a heating system, provisions for heating-season ventilation in accordance with Part 6.
2) A self-contained heating-season ventilation system serving a single dwelling unit shall comply with Subsection 9.32.3. (See Note A-9.32.1.2.(2).)
3) In houses that contain a secondary suite, heating-season ventilation need not be provided for
a) exits,
b) public corridors, and
c) ancillary spaces that are not within a dwelling unit, except as provided in Sentence (4).
(See Note A-9.32.1.2.(2).)
4) Where ancillary spaces described in Clause (3)(c) contain exhaust devices, these spaces shall be provided with make-up air in accordance with Article 9.32.3.8.
5) Public corridors and exit stairways referred to in Clause 9.9.9.3.(1)(a) shall be ventilated in accordance with Article 6.3.1.8.
Venting of Laundry-Drying Equipment
1) Exhaust ducts or vents connected to laundry-drying equipment shall discharge
directly to the outdoors.
2) Exhaust ducts connected to laundry-drying equipment shall be
a) independent of other exhaust ducts,
b) accessible for cleaning, and
c) constructed of a smooth corrosion-resistant material.
(See Note A-9.32.1.3.(2).)
9.32.1.3.
9-204 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 9.32.2.3.
9.32.2. 9.32.2.1.
9.32.2.2.
3) Where collective venting of multiple installations of laundry-drying equipment is used, the ventilation system shall
a) be connected to a common exhaust duct that is vented by one central exhaust fan and incorporates one central lint trap,
b) include an interlock to activate the central exhaust fan when laundry-drying equipment is in use, and
c) where required by Article 9.32.3.8., be provided with make-up air.
Non-Heating-Season Ventilation Required Ventilation
1) The non-heating-season ventilation required by Clause 9.32.1.2.(1)(a) shall be supplied by
a) natural ventilation in accordance with Article 9.32.2.2., or
b) a mechanical ventilation system in accordance with Article 9.32.2.3.
Non-Heating-Season Natural Ventilation
1) The unobstructed openable ventilation area to the outdoors for rooms and spaces in residential buildings ventilated by natural means shall conform to Table 9.32.2.2.
Table 9.32.2.2.
Natural Ventilation Area Forming Part of Sentence 9.32.2.2.(1)
Bathrooms or water-closet rooms
Unfinished basement space
Dining rooms, living rooms, bedrooms, kitchens, combined rooms, dens, recreation rooms and all other finished rooms
Bathrooms or water-closet rooms
Sleeping areas
Laundry rooms, kitchens, recreation rooms
Corridors, storage rooms and other similar public rooms or spaces
Unfinished basement space not used on a shared basis
Within a dwelling unit
Other than within a dwelling unit
9.32.2.3.
2) Where a vestibule opens directly off a living or dining room within a dwelling unit, ventilation to the outdoors for such rooms may be through the vestibule.
3) Openings for natural ventilation other than windows shall provide protection from the weather and insects.
4) Screening shall be of corrosion-resistant material. Non-Heating-Season Mechanical Ventilation
1) Where a habitable room or space is not provided with natural ventilation as described in Article 9.32.2.2. and is mechanically cooled, its non-heating-season mechanical ventilation system shall
a) have the capacity to exhaust air from inside the room or space, or to introduce outdoor air into that room or space, at a rate conforming with Table 9.32.2.3., or
b) comply with Subsection 9.32.3.
Location
Minimum Unobstructed Area
0.09 m2
0.2% of the floor area
0.28 m2 per room or combination of rooms
0.09 m2 per water closet 0.14 m2 per occupant 4% of the floor area
2% of the floor area 0.2% of the floor area
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Division B
9-205
           © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 9.32.3.1.
Division B
Room or Space
Master bedroom
Other bedrooms
Living room
Dining room
Family room
Recreation room
Basement
Kitchen
Bathroom or water-closet room Laundry room
Utility room
Other habitable rooms
Rate, L/s
   10
   5
   5
   5
   5
   5
   10
   5
   5
   5
   5
   5
9.32.3. 9.32.3.1.
3) Where a habitable room or space is not provided with natural ventilation as described in Article 9.32.2.2. and is not mechanically cooled, the non-heating-season mechanical ventilation system shall have the capacity to exhaust indoor air from the room or space or to introduce outdoor air to that room or space at a rate of one air change per hour.
4) A non-heating-season mechanical ventilation system shall be designed and installed in conformance with good practice such as that described in the ASHRAE Handbooks and Standards, the HRAI Digest, the Hydronics Institute Manuals and the SMACNA manuals.
Heating-Season Mechanical Ventilation
(See Note A-9.32.3.)
Required Ventilation
1) The heating-season ventilation required by Clause 9.32.1.2.(1)(b) shall be provided by a mechanical ventilation system complying with
a) except as provided in Clause 9.32.3.3.(2)(b), good practice such as that described in CAN/CSA-F326-M, “Residential Mechanical Ventilation Systems,”
b) for dwelling units with 5 or fewer bedrooms, the balance of this Subsection, or
c) Part 6.
(See Note A-9.32.3.1.(1).)
9-206 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
2) In applying Clause (1)(a),
a) at least one bedroom in each dwelling unit shall be designated as the master
bedroom,
b) air change rates for any combined living/dining or family/dining space shall
be determined as if the spaces were individual rooms,
c) where a basement incorporates rooms of the types designated in
Table 9.32.2.3., the assigned air change rate for each room shall be as
specified for those types of rooms,
d) basement areas used for other purposes that exceed 2/3 of the total basement
floor area shall be assigned an air change rate of 10 L/s,
e) basement areas used for other purposes that are 2/3 of the total basement floor
area or less shall be assigned an air change rate of 5 L/s, and
f) other habitable rooms, other than spaces intended solely for access, egress, storage, or service equipment, shall be assigned an air change rate of 5 L/s.
Table 9.32.2.3.
Air Change Rate
Forming Part of Clause 9.32.2.3.(1)(a)
   © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 9.32.3.3.
9.32.3.2.
2) Mechanical ventilation systems complying with the balance of this Subsection shall incorporate at least the following components:
a) a principal ventilation system complying with Article 9.32.3.3.,
b) supplemental exhaust fans complying with Article 9.32.3.7., and
c) protection against depressurization in accordance with Article 9.32.3.8.
Design and Installation
1) Aspects of mechanical ventilation systems not specifically described in this Subsection shall be designed, constructed and installed in accordance with good practice such as that described in the ASHRAE Handbooks and Standards, the HRAI Digest, the HRAI Residential Mechanical Ventilation Manual, the Hydronics Institute Manuals and the SMACNA manuals.
2) Ventilation system equipment installed to meet the requirements of this Section shall be installed in accordance with the manufacturers’ instructions and recommendations except that, where such instructions and recommendations are in conflict with the requirements of this Subsection, the requirements of this Subsection shall govern.
3) Except where mounted on concrete foundations, fans and heat recovery ventilators shall be isolated from structural components by resilient mountings to minimize the transmission of noise and vibration to occupied spaces.
4) Where flow-regulating dampers are required,
a) they shall be adjustable and accessible without requiring the removal of
fans, motors or insulating materials, or the use of specialized tools, and
b) a device on the outside of the duct or device in which they are installed shall
indicate the position of the damper.
5) Ventilation equipment shall be accessible for inspection, maintenance, repair and cleaning.
6) Ventilation equipment installed in unheated spaces shall be installed so as to avoid condensation of moisture on fans and motors, in accordance with the manufacturers’ instructions.
Principal Ventilation System
(See Note A-9.32.3.3.)
1) The principal ventilation system shall incorporate the following components:
a) a principal ventilation fan complying with this Article, and
b) provision for the introduction of outdoor air to the dwelling unit, in
conformance with Article 9.32.3.4. or 9.32.3.5.
2) The principal ventilation fan shall
a) be capable of operating at an exhaust capacity complying with
Table 9.32.3.3., referred to hereinafter as the “normal operating exhaust
capacity” (see Note A-9.32.3.3.(2)), and
b) include, in buildings whose major occupancy is Group C and housing dwelling
units only, a heat recovery ventilator (HRV)
i) having sensible heat recovery efficiency certified
by the Home Ventilating Institute (HVI) or another certification body accredited by the Standards
Council of Canada according to CAN/CSA-C439, “Standard Laboratory Methods of Test for Rating the Performance of Heat/Energy-Recovery Ventilators,” (see Note A-6.3.1.8.(8)(c)), and
ii) having sensible heat recovery efficiency (SRE) of at least 54% for a building located in a municipality whose number of degree-days below 18°C is less than 6000 and of at least 60% for a building located in another municipality and determined at a dry temperature of −25°C.
9.32.3.3.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Division B
9-207
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022
 9.32.3.4.
Division B
Number of Bedrooms in Dwelling Unit
Normal Operating Exhaust Capacity of Principal Ventilation Fan, L/s Minimum Maximum
9.32.3.4.
1 16 24 2 18 28 3 22 32 4 26 38 5 30 45
More than 5 System must comply with Clause 9.32.3.1.(1)(a)
3) The requirement for a principal ventilation fan may be satisfied by a single fan, by the exhaust side of a heat recovery ventilator, or by a group of fans, provided all fans in the group are controlled simultaneously by a controller complying with Sentences (5), (6) and (7). (See Note A-9.32.3.3.(3).)
4) The components of the principal ventilation system shall be approved by their manufacturer for continuous operation.
5) The principal ventilation fan shall be controlled by a manual switch located within the living area of the dwelling unit and clearly marked “VENTILATION FAN.” (See Note A-9.32.3.3.(5).)
6) If all controls serving the principal ventilation fan are in the “off” position, the principal ventilation system shall not operate.
7) The requirement for a manual switch stated in Sentence (5) can be satisfied by a manual override incorporated in a dehumidistat or other automatic control, provided
a) the automatic control is located within the living area of the dwelling unit, and
b) the manual override is clearly marked “VENTILATION FAN.”
8) Where the principal ventilation fan is controlled by a dehumidistat or other automatic control in addition to the manual switch required by Sentence (5), the manual switch shall be capable of activating the fan regardless of the setting of the automatic control.
9) Where an exhaust air intake for the principal ventilation fan is connected directly to the return side of the duct system of a forced air heating system or other forced air distribution system, it shall be connected, where applicable, not less than 1 m upstream from the connection of the outdoor air supply duct required by Sentence 9.32.3.4.(5).
10) Exhaust air intakes for principal ventilation fans located in kitchens, bathrooms and water-closet rooms shall be located in the ceiling or on the wall not less than 2 m above the floor. (See Note A-9.32.3.3.(10).)
Ventilation Systems Used in Conjunction with Forced Air Heating Systems
(See Note A-9.32.3.4.)
1) Where outdoor air is to be introduced to the dwelling unit through a forced air heating system, the provision of outdoor air shall comply with this Article.
2) Where the actual normal operating exhaust capacity of the fan installed to satisfy the requirement for a principal ventilation fan exceeds the maximum outdoor airflow permitted by Table 9.32.3.4. for a mixed air temperature of 15°C or exceeds the minimum acceptable return air temperature specified by the manufacturer of the furnace, whichever is less, then either
a) the system shall incorporate a means for tempering outdoor air introduced to the heating system ducts so that a mixed air temperature of 15°C or the
9-208 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Table 9.32.3.3.
Normal Operating Exhaust Capacity of Principal Ventilation Fan Forming Part of Sentence 9.32.3.3.(2)
     © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
9.32.3.4.
minimum acceptable return air temperature specified by the manufacturer of the furnace, whichever is less, is achieved when the outdoor air is at the January 2.5% temperature and the indoor air temperature is 22°C, or
b) this Article shall be considered to be no longer applicable and the mechanical ventilation system shall comply with either Clause 9.32.3.1.(1)(a) or with Article 9.32.3.5.
3) For the purposes of Table 9.32.3.4., the furnace airflow shall be determined
a) by operating the forced air heating system’s circulation fan at the rate chosen
to satisfy Clause (9)(a) when measuring the return airflow in the furnace return air plenum immediately upstream of the connection of the outdoor air supply duct required by Sentence (5) and then adding this return airflow measurement to the actual normal operating exhaust capacity of the fan installed to satisfy the requirement for a principal ventilation fan, or
b) by using the manufacturer’s rated flow for the furnace for 150 Pa static pressure and the wiring configuration necessary to achieve the flow specified in Clause (9)(a).
4) Linear interpolation is permitted in using Table 9.32.3.4.
Table 9.32.3.4.
Maximum Outdoor Airflow Forming Part of Sentence 9.32.3.4.(2)
0 000000000000000000
January 2.5% Temperature as per Appendix C, °C
Minimum Mixed Air Temperature, °C
Furnace Airflow, L/s
Maximum Outdoor Airflow for Indicated Mixed Temperature, L/s
-10 -10 -10 -20 -20 -20 -30 -30 -30 -40 -40 -40 -50 -50 -50
100
200
300
400
500
325577223853172940132333111927101724 641091554475106335781274665233955193347 ———661131595086121406998345882295071 —————————54921314577110396794 ———————————————4983118
0 0 0 151051510515105151051510515105
An outdoor air supply duct shall be installed between the outdoors and the furnace return air plenum and shall be connected
a) not less than 3 m upstream of the plenum connection to the furnace, as measured along the length of the duct, or
b) through an acceptable mixing device installed in the return air plenum.
6) The outdoor air supply duct required by Sentence (5) shall incorporate a
flow-regulating damper.
7) Where the outdoor air supply duct required by Sentence (5) is not connected to an outdoor air supply fan, it shall be connected downstream of all return branch connections.
8) Where the outdoor air supply duct required by Sentence (5) is connected to an auxiliary outdoor air supply fan, the auxiliary outdoor air supply fan shall be
a) approved by the manufacturer for the handling of untempered outdoor air if it will be handling untempered outdoor air,
b) approved by the manufacturer for continuous operation, and
c) designed to provide an outdoor air supply flow within ±10% of the actual
normal operating exhaust capacity of the exhaust fan installed to satisfy the requirement for a principal ventilation fan.
5)
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-209
      © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 9.32.3.5.
Division B
9.32.3.5.
9) The principal ventilation fan control required by Sentence 9.32.3.3.(5) shall be wired in such a way that
a) activation of the principal ventilation fan automatically activates the forced air heating system’s circulation fan to provide an airflow not greater than the space-heating airflow,
b) where applicable, activation of the principal ventilation fan automatically activates the auxiliary outdoor air supply fan described in Sentence (8), and
c) the auxiliary outdoor air supply fan does not operate when the principal ventilation fan is not operating.
10) With the principal ventilation fan operating at its normal operating exhaust capacity, the airflow in the outdoor air supply duct shall be measured and the flow-regulating damper required by Sentence (6) shall be adjusted and permanently fixed so that the airflow in the outdoor air supply duct is within ±10% of the actual normal operating exhaust capacity of the principal ventilation fan.
11) The airflow measurements required by Sentences (3) and (10) shall be done using a method accurate to within ±15% of the flow rate being measured.
12) All connections between the ventilation system and the heating system shall be in accordance with Articles 9.33.4.1. and 9.33.5.2.
Ventilation Systems Not Used in Conjunction with Forced Air Heating Systems
(See Note A-9.32.3.5.)
1) Where outdoor air is to be introduced to the dwelling unit through means other than a forced air heating system, the provision of outdoor air shall comply with this Article.
2) An outdoor air supply fan shall be installed with a rated capacity within ±10% of the actual normal operating exhaust capacity of the exhaust fan installed to satisfy the requirement for a principal ventilation fan.
3) The principal ventilation fan control required by Sentence 9.32.3.3.(5) shall be wired in such a way that
a) activation of the principal ventilation fan automatically activates the outdoor air supply fan required by Sentence (2), and
b) the outdoor air supply fan does not operate when the principal ventilation fan is not operating.
4) The outdoor air supply fan shall be connected to the outdoors through an outdoor air supply duct.
5) The outdoor air supply duct required by Sentence (4) shall incorporate a flow-regulating damper.
6) With the principal ventilation fan operating at its normal operating exhaust capacity, the airflow in the outdoor air supply duct shall be measured and the flow-regulating damper required by Sentence (5) shall be adjusted and permanently fixed so that the airflow in the outdoor air supply duct is within ±10% of the actual normal operating exhaust capacity of the principal ventilation fan.
7) The airflow measurements required by Sentence (6) shall be done using a method accurate to within ±15% of the flow rate being measured.
8) Except where a heat recovery ventilator is used to supply the outdoor air, the outdoor air shall be tempered to at least 12°C before being circulated to habitable spaces.
9) Any tempering device installed to comply with Sentence (8) shall be installed in accordance with Articles 9.33.4.1. and 9.33.5.2.
10) Except as provided in Sentence (11), outdoor air shall be distributed by a system of trunk and branch supply ducts, from the outdoor air supply fan required by Sentence (2) to
a) each bedroom,
9-210 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
9.32.3.8.
9.32.3.6. 9.32.3.7.
9.32.3.8.
b) c)
any storey, including basements and heated crawl spaces, without a bedroom, and
the principal living area.
In a dwelling unit in which there is no storey without a bedroom, if an exhaust air intake for the principal ventilation fan is located in the principal living area and the principal ventilation fan has no more than 2 exhaust air intakes located in other rooms, distribution of outdoor air to the principal living area is not required.
12) All branch supply ducts that are not fitted with diffusers with adjustable balance stops shall be supplied with balancing dampers that
a) can be fixed in their adjusted positions, and
b) include devices to indicate the positions of the dampers.
13) The air supply outlets through which outdoor air is delivered to the rooms shall be located in the ceiling or in a wall at not less than 2 m above the floor and shall be designed and installed to promote diffusion across the ceiling.
14) Provision shall be made for the free flow of air to or from all rooms by leaving gaps beneath doors, using louvred doors or installing grilles in doors.
Deleted
Supplemental Exhaust
(See Note A-9.32.3.7.)
1) A supplemental exhaust fan with a rated capacity not less than 50 L/s shall be installed in each kitchen.
2) Deleted.
3) Deleted.
4) Each bathroom and each washroom shall be
a) served by a manually controlled exhaust supplemental fan installed in the
bathroom or washroom and having a rated capacity not less than 25 L/s, or
b) equipped with an exhaust air intake of the principal ventilation system of the dwelling unit enabling an exhaust capacity not less than 25 L/s using a
manual control located in the bathroom or washroom.
(See Note A-6.3.1.8.(17).)
5) Where the intake for a supplemental exhaust fan other than a cooking appliance exhaust fan serving a cooktop is installed in a kitchen, it shall be installed in the ceiling or on the wall at not less than 2 m above the floor.
6) A supplemental exhaust fan required by this Article shall be controlled by a manual switch located in the room served by the fan.
7) Deleted.
8) Where a supplemental exhaust fan required by this Article is controlled by a dehumidistat or other automatic control in addition to the manual switch required by Sentence (6), the manual switch shall be capable of activating the fan regardless of the setting of the automatic control.
Protection Against Depressurization
(See Note A-9.32.3.8.)
1) This Article applies to
a) dwelling units that contain a fuel-fired space-heating appliance or fuel-fired
water-heating appliance of other than direct-vented or mechanically vented
types,
b) ancillary spaces that contain an exhaust device, where the space is not
within a dwelling unit in a house with a secondary suite and where the house with a secondary suite contains a fuel-fired space-heating appliance or fuel-fired
11)
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-211
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 9.32.3.9.
Division B
9.32.3.9.
9-212 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
c)
water-heating appliance of other than direct-vented or mechanically vented types, and
dwelling units located in recognized regions where soil gas emissions create a problem and are not equipped with an active system for reducing gas emissions.
Except as provided in Sentences (6) to (8), any mechanical air exhausting device, other than the principal ventilation fan operating at a rate not greater than the maximum permitted by Table 9.32.3.3., shall be provided with outdoor makeup air supplied by a fan rated to deliver outdoor air to the dwelling unit at a rate
a) not less than the exhaust capacity of the device, and
b) not greater than that exhaust capacity plus 10%.
3) An outdoor makeup air supply fan required by Sentence (2) shall be wired so that it is activated whenever the device for which it supplies outdoor makeup air is activated.
4) The outdoor makeup air required by Sentence (2) shall be
a) introduced to a normally unoccupied area in the dwelling unit, or
b) tempered to at least 12°C before being introduced to occupied areas or to
a supply duct system.
5) If the outdoor makeup air required by Sentence (2) is not tempered upstream of the supply fan, the supply fan required by Sentence (2) shall be approved by the manufacturer for the handling of untempered outdoor air.
6) The provision of makeup air as described in Sentence (2) is not required in a dwelling unit with solid-fuel-burning appliances, where all other fuel-fired appliances are direct-vented or mechanically vented.
7) The provision of makeup air as described in Sentence (2) is not required if it can be shown using the test procedures in CAN/CGSB-51.71, “Depressurization Test,” that the maximum depressurization levels to which fuel-fired space- or water-heating appliances and their venting systems will be exposed will not exceed the limits set out in CAN/CGSB-51.71 for the categories of fuel-fired appliances and venting systems installed in the dwelling unit.
8) The provision of makeup air as described in Sentence (2) is not required for mechanical exhausting devices operating a subfloor depressurization system installed for the purpose of reducing the risk of radon ingress.
Carbon Monoxide Alarms
(See Note A-9.32.3.9.)
1) This Article applies to every building that contains a residential occupancy and that also contains
a) a fuel-burning appliance, or
b) a storage garage.
2) Carbon monoxide (CO) alarms required by this Article shall
a) conform to CAN/CSA-6.19, “Residential Carbon Monoxide Alarming
Devices,”
b) be equipped with an integral alarm that satisfies the audibility requirements
of CAN/CSA-6.19, “Residential Carbon Monoxide Alarming Devices,”
c) have no disconnect switch between the overcurrent device and the CO
alarm, where the CO alarm is powered by the dwelling unit’s electrical
system,
d) be mechanically fixed at a height recommended by the manufacturer, and
e) in case the regular power supply to the CO alarm is interrupted, be provided with a battery as an alternative power source.
2)
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 9.32.3.10.
3) Where a room contains a solid-fuel-burning appliance, a CO alarm conforming to CAN/CSA-6.19, “Residential Carbon Monoxide Alarming Devices,” shall be mechanically fixed
a) at the manufacturer’s recommended height where these instructions specifically mention solid-fuel-burning appliances, or
b) in the absence of specific instructions related to solid-fuel-burning appliances, on or near the ceiling.
4) Where a fuel-burning appliance is installed in a suite of residential occupancy, a CO alarm shall be installed
a) inside each bedroom, or
b) outside each bedroom, within 5 m of each bedroom door, measured
following corridors and doorways.
5) Where a fuel-burning appliance is installed in a service room that is not in a suite of residential occupancy, a CO alarm shall be installed
a) either inside each bedroom, or if outside, within 5 m of each bedroom door, measured following corridors and doorways, in every suite of residential occupancy that shares a wall or floor/ceiling assembly with the service room, and
b) in the service room.
6) For each suite of residential occupancy that shares a wall or floor/ceiling assembly with a storage garage or that is adjacent to an attic or crawl space to which the storage garage is also adjacent, a CO alarm shall be installed
a) inside each bedroom, or
b) outside each bedroom, within 5 m of each bedroom door, measured
following corridors and doorways.
7) Where CO alarms are installed in a house with a secondary suite including their common spaces, the CO alarms shall be wired so that the activation of any one CO alarm causes all CO alarms within the house with a secondary suite including their common spaces to sound.
9.32.3.10. Fans
(See Note A-9.32.3.10.)
1) Except as provided in Sentence (4), capacity ratings for required fans shall be determined in accordance with
a) CAN/CSA-C260-M, “Rating the Performance of Residential Mechanical Ventilating Equipment,” or
b) HVI Publication 916, “Airflow Test Procedure.”
2) Sound ratings for fans shall be determined in accordance with
a) CAN/CSA-C260-M, “Rating the Performance of Residential Mechanical
Ventilating Equipment,” or
b) HVI Publication 915, “Loudness Testing and Rating Procedure.”
3) Capacity ratings for fans shall be measured at the external static pressure differentials shown in Table 9.32.3.10.-A.
4) Fans in heat recovery ventilators used to provide one or more required
fans shall have their airflow at normal temperature rated in accordance with CAN/CSA-C439, “Standard Laboratory Methods of Test for Rating the Performance of Heat/Energy-Recovery Ventilators.”
5) Where a heat recovery ventilator is used to provide one or more required fans, it shall have a low-temperature ventilation reduction factor of not less than 50% when tested in accordance with CAN/CSA-C439, “Standard Laboratory Methods of Test for Rating the Performance of Heat/Energy-Recovery Ventilators,” at an outdoor temperature at least as low as the outdoor design temperature for the location where the ventilation system is to be installed, but the outdoor design temperature need not be lower than -25°C.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-213
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 9.32.3.11.
Division B
Fan Application
Principal ventilation fan
Supplemental fans installed in bathrooms and their makeup air fans
Supplemental fans installed in kitchens and their makeup air fans
Table 9.32.3.10.-B Maximum Sound Rating for Fans Forming Part of Sentence 9.32.3.10.(6)
Maximum Sound Rating, sones
9.32.3.11.
Ducts
(See Note A-9.32.3.11.)
9-214 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Table 9.32.3.10.-A
Minimum External Static Pressure Differential for Rating of Fans Forming Part of Sentence 9.32.3.10.(3)
Fan Configuration or Application
Minimum External Static Pressure Differential to be Used in Determining Rated Capacity
Fans installed with ducts connected on both sides, any application 100 Pa (0.4 inch water column) Other required fans 25 Pa (0.1 inch water column)
6) Fans, including makeup air supply fans, installed to satisfy Articles 9.32.3.3. to 9.32.3.8. with less than 1 m of duct between themselves and the visible interior surfaces of rooms other than unfinished basements, furnace rooms, utility rooms and attics, shall have a sound rating complying with Table 9.32.3.10.-B when operating at the required flow rate.
7) Mechanical ventilation devices shall conform to CSA C22.2 No. 113, “Fans and Ventilators.”
Rated according to CAN/CSA-C260-M
2.0 2.5
No rating required
Rated according to HVI Publication 915
2.5 3.5
No rating required
1) Except as provided in Sentence (6), ventilation ducts and their fittings shall conform to the requirements of Article 9.33.6.2., except that exhaust ducts serving only a bathroom or water-closet room are permitted to be of combustible material, provided they are reasonably airtight and constructed of a material impervious to water.
2) Exhaust ducts shall not discharge into heated or unheated enclosed spaces.
3) Where an exhaust duct passes through an unheated space or is not separated
from an unheated space by an insulated building assembly, the duct shall be insulated to not less than RSI 0.74.
4) Where a duct carrying outdoor air that is not tempered and not mixed with indoor air passes through heated space, it shall be
a) insulated to not less than RSI 0.74, and
b) provided with a vapour barrier.
5) All exhaust intakes located within 3 m horizontally of a cooktop shall be equipped with a grease filter at the intake end.
6) Ductwork for cooking appliance exhaust fans shall
a) be of noncombustible, corrosion-resistant material,
b) lead directly to the outdoors with no connections to other exhaust fans or
ducts, and
c) be equipped with a grease filter at the intake end.
7) All ductwork shall be installed to avoid crushing and shall be permanently supported to prevent sagging.
        © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 9.32.3.11.
8) Joints in all ventilation system ducting shall be sealed with mastic, metal foil duct tape or the manufacturers’ specified sealants.
9) Except where the size of a duct can be determined using Table 9.32.3.11.-A or Table 9.32.3.11.-B, duct sizes shall be determined according to Subsection 9.33.4.
Table 9.32.3.11.-A Equivalent Duct Sizes Forming Part of Sentence 9.32.3.11.(9)
Maximum Airflow in Duct, L/s
Static Duct 7 15 25 35 50 75 100
Fan’s External Pressure, Pa
Diameter, mm
25
50
62.5
100
150
75 6 1 0 0 0 0 0 100 25 6 2 1 0 0 0 125 60 17 6 3 1 0 0 150 60 42 16 8 4 2 1 175 60 60 34 18 9 4 2 200 60 60 60 35 18 8 5
75 16 4 1 0 0 0 0 100 60 16 6 3 1 0 0 125 60 47 18 9 5 2 1 150 60 60 44 23 12 5 3 175 60 60 60 49 25 12 7 200 60 60 60 60 48 22 13
75 22 5 2 1 0 0 0 100 60 21 8 4 2 1 0 125 60 60 24 12 6 3 1 150 60 60 58 31 15 7 4 175 60 60 60 60 33 15 9 200 60 60 60 60 60 29 17
75 38 9 3 1 0 0 0 100 60 36 14 7 3 1 1 125 60 60 41 22 11 5 3 150 60 60 60 53 27 12 7 175 60 60 60 60 57 27 15 200 60 60 60 60 60 51 30
75 59 14 5 2 1 0 0 100 60 57 22 11 6 2 1 125 60 60 60 34 17 8 4 150 60 60 60 60 42 20 11 175 60 60 60 60 60 42 24 200 60 60 60 60 60 60 46
10) In using Table 9.32.3.11.-A,
a) when sizing branch ducts, “maximum length of duct” refers to the physical
length of the duct from the interior grille served by that branch duct to
the exterior hood,
b) when sizing a trunk duct, “maximum length of duct” refers to the physical
length of the duct from the interior grille of the longest branch served by that trunk to the exterior hood,
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-215
Maximum Length of Duct, m
         © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 9.32.3.12.
Division B
Required Round Duct Size, mm
Permitted Equivalent Rectangular Duct Size, mm
75 100 125 150 175 > 175
9.32.3.12.
——
9.32.3.13.
1) This Article shall apply to heat recovery ventilators installed to provide one or more of the fans required by this Subsection.
2) Two or more heat recovery ventilators shall not be connected in parallel airflow to a common air supply duct, unless specifically permitted by the manufacturer.
3) Two or more heat recovery ventilators shall not be connected in parallel airflow to a common downstream exhaust duct.
4) All start-up procedures recommended by the manufacturer, including air balancing and airflow determination, shall be followed.
5) A means for the free flow of condensate shall be provided in accordance with the manufacturer’s recommendations or, in their absence, a condensate drain of at least 1/2 inch nominal pipe size pitched in the direction of flow and complete with a trap or condensate pump of sufficient capacity shall be installed and connected to the dwelling unit’s drain, waste and vent system.
6) The heat recovery ventilator and all condensate lines shall be installed in a space where the ambient temperature will not adversely affect the operation of the system.
Outdoor Intake and Exhaust Openings
1) Intake openings shall be located so as to avoid contamination of the ventilation air from other local sources such as automobile exhaust and exhaust from the building or adjacent buildings.
2) The distance from the bottom of an air intake opening to finished ground or to any nearer and lower permanent horizontal surface shall be not less than 450 mm or the depth of expected snow accumulation, whichever is greater.
9-216 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
c) outdoor air supply ducts shall be sized as trunk ducts,
d) “maximum airflow in duct” refers to the maximum airflow rate that a given
section of duct (branch or trunk) must provide to satisfy the ventilation
system design, and
e) “fan’s external static pressure” refers to the external static pressure at which
the fan is rated to achieve the maximum airflow rate that the fan is required or intended to provide.
11) Where flexible duct is used, it may be sized by choosing the next higher diameter in Table 9.32.3.11.-A or by choosing the diameter for a duct twice as long as the actual length.
12) Where rectangular duct is used in place of round duct, it shall be selected according to Table 9.32.3.11.-B.
Stack duct
75x 150 75x 250 75x 250 75x 300 75x 350
Heat Recovery Ventilators
(See Note A-9.32.3.12.)
100 mm depth
50 x 100
75 x 100 125 x 100 200 x 100 275 x 100
125 mm depth
150 mm depth
Table 9.32.3.11.-B
Equivalent Duct Sizes
Forming Part of Sentences 9.32.3.11.(9) and (12)
Design to Subsection 9.33.4.
75 x 125 100 x 125 150 x 125 200 x 125
75 x 150 100 x 150 125 x 150 175 x 150
     © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 9.33.1.1.
3) The distance separating air intakes from building envelope penetrations that are potential sources of contaminants, such as gas vents or oil fill pipes, shall be not less than 900 mm.
4) Air intakes shall be clearly labeled as such for identification from locations outside the dwelling unit.
5) The distance from the bottom of an exhaust outlet to finished ground or to any nearer and lower permanent horizontal surface shall be not less than 100 mm.
6) Where air intake and exhaust openings are in exposed locations, provision shall be made to protect them from the entry of precipitation by the use of louvres, weather cowls or other suitable protection.
7) Air intake openings shall incorporate screens or grilles to protect against the entry of animals and insects.
8) Except for exhaust outlets serving heat recovery ventilators, exhaust outlets shall incorporate backdraft dampers.
9) An exhaust outlet that does not incorporate a backdraft damper located at the building envelope shall incorporate a screen located at the building envelope to protect against the entry of animals.
10) Screens, grilles and filters installed in air intake and exhaust openings shall be easily removable for cleaning purposes, without the need for special tools.
11) Where screens or grilles are installed in air intake and exhaust openings, the net free area of the air intake or exhaust opening shall be equal to or greater than the required cross-sectional area of the duct served or such openings shall comply with Table 9.32.3.13.
12) Screens and grilles shall be of corrosion-resistant material.
Table 9.32.3.13.
Area of Openings with Screens or Grilles Forming Part of Sentence 9.32.3.13.(11)
Mesh Size of Screen or Grille, mm
Less than 4 4 to 6 Larger than 6
Section 9.33. Heating and Air-conditioning
9.33.1. General 9.33.1.1. Application
1) This Section applies to the design and installation of
a) heating systems, including requirements for combustion air, and
air-conditioning systems serving only one dwelling unit, and
b) radiant heating systems in houses with a secondary suite including their
common spaces.
2) The design and installation of heating systems, including requirements for combustion air, and air-conditioning systems other than those described in Sentence (1) shall conform to Part 6. (See Note A-9.33.1.1.(2) and Subsection 9.10.10.)
3) Air duct distribution systems serving one of the dwelling units in a house with a secondary suite shall not be directly interconnected with other parts of the house.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-217
Area of Opening
3 times required area of duct served 2 times required area of duct served Required area of duct served
   © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 9.33.2.1.
Division B
9.33.2. 9.33.2.1.
9.33.3. 9.33.3.1.
9.33.3.2.
9.33.4. 9.33.4.1.
9.33.4.2.
9.33.4.3.
9.33.4.4.
9.33.4.5.
Required Heating Systems Required Heating Systems
1) Residential buildings intended for use in the winter months on a continuing basis shall be equipped with heating facilities conforming to this Section.
Design Temperatures Indoor Design Temperatures
1) At the outside winter design temperature, required heating facilities shall be capable of maintaining an indoor air temperature of not less than
a) 22°C in all living spaces,
b) 18°C in unfinished basements,
c) 18°C in common service rooms, ancillary spaces and exits in houses with a secondary suite, and
d) 15°C in heated crawl spaces.
Outdoor Design Temperatures
1) The outdoor conditions to be used in designing heating and air-conditioning
systems shall be determined in conformance with Article 1.1.3.1.
General Requirements for Heating and Air-conditioning Systems
Design of Heating and Air-conditioning Systems
1) Heating and air-conditioning systems, including ducting, and mechanical heating and refrigeration equipment, shall be designed, constructed and installed to conform to the relevant provincial or territorial regulations or municipal bylaws or, in the absence of such regulations or bylaws, with good practice such as that described in the ASHRAE Handbooks and Standards, the HRAI Digest, the CHC Handbook
on Hydronic Heating Systems, the Hydronics Institute Manuals and the SMACNA Manuals. (See also Subsection 9.32.3. for the design of systems that also provide ventilation.)
Installation of Hydronic Heating Systems
1) The installation of a hydronic heating system shall conform to applicable provincial or territorial regulations or municipal bylaws or, in the absence of such regulations or bylaws, to CSA B214, “Installation Code for Hydronic Heating Systems.”
Heating System Control
1) Where a single heating system serves a house with a secondary suite, individual temperature controls shall be provided in each dwelling unit served by the system. (See Note A-9.33.4.3.(1).)
Access
1) Equipment forming part of a heating or air-conditioning system, with the exception of embedded pipes or ducts, shall be installed with provision for access for inspection, maintenance, repair and cleaning.
Protection from Freezing
1) Equipment forming part of a heating or air-conditioning system that may be adversely affected by freezing temperatures and that is located in an unheated area shall be protected from freezing.
9-218 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 9.33.5.4.
9.33.4.6.
9.33.4.7.
9.33.4.8.
9.33.4.9.
9.33.5. 9.33.5.1.
9.33.5.2.
Expansion, Contraction and System Pressure
1) Heating and cooling systems shall be designed to allow for expansion and contraction of the heat transfer fluid and to maintain the system pressure within the rated working pressure limits of all components of the system.
Structural Movement
1) Mechanical systems and equipment shall be designed and installed to accommodate the maximum amount of structural movement provided for in the construction of the building.
2) Where the building is in a location where the spectral response acceleration, Sa(0.2), is greater than 0.55, heating and air-conditioning equipment with fuel or power connections shall be secured to the structure to resist overturning and displacement. (See Note A-9.31.6.2.(3).)
Asbestos
1) Asbestos shall not be used in air distribution systems or equipment.
Contaminant Transfer
1) Systems serving garages, and systems serving other occupied parts of a dwelling unit but located in or running through a garage, shall be designed and constructed in a manner such that means are not provided for the transfer of contaminants from the garage into other spaces in the dwelling unit.
Heating and Air-conditioning Appliances and Equipment Capacity of Heating Appliances
1) The required capacity of heating appliances located in a dwelling unit and serving only that dwelling unit, shall be determined in accordance with CSA F280, “Determining the Required Capacity of Residential Space Heating and Cooling Appliances,” except that the design temperatures shall conform to Subsection 9.33.3.
Installation Standards
1) Except as provided in Articles 9.33.5.3. and 9.33.5.4., the installation of heating and air-conditioning equipment, including mechanical refrigeration equipment,
and including provisions for mounting, clearances and air supply, shall conform to applicable provincial or territorial regulations or municipal bylaws or, in the absence of such regulations or bylaws, to
a) CSA B51, “Boiler, Pressure Vessel, and Pressure Piping Code,”
b) CSA B52, “Mechanical Refrigeration Code,”
c) CSA B139, “Installation Code for Oil-Burning Equipment,”
d) CSA B149.1, “Natural Gas and Propane Installation Code,”
e) CSA C22.1, “Canadian Electrical Code, Part I,” or
f) CSA C448 Series, “Design and Installation of Earth Energy Systems.”
(See also Sentence 9.33.5.3.(1).)
Design, Construction and Installation Standard for Solid-Fuel-Burning Appliances
(See Note A-9.33.5.3.)
1) The design, construction and installation, including the provision of combustion air, of solid-fuel-burning appliances and equipment, including stoves, cooktops, ovens and space heaters, shall conform to CSA B365, “Installation Code for Solid-Fuel-Burning Appliances and Equipment.”
Fireplaces
1) Fireplaces shall conform to Section 9.22.
9.33.5.3.
9.33.5.4.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Amended Page Division B 9-219
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 9.33.6.1.
Division B
9.33.6. 9.33.6.1.
9.33.6.2.
Air Duct Systems Application
1) The design, construction and installation of air duct distribution systems serving heating systems in which the rated heat input does not exceed 120 kW shall conform to this Subsection.
2) Air duct distribution systems in which the rated heat input exceeds 120 kW shall conform to Part 6 and Subsection 3.6.5.
Materials in Air Duct Systems
1) Except as provided in Sentences (2) to (6) and in Article 3.6.4.3., all ducts, duct connectors, associated fittings and plenums used in air duct systems shall be constructed of steel, aluminum alloy, copper, clay or similar noncombustible material.
2) Ducts, associated fittings and plenums are permitted to contain combustible material provided they
a) conform to the appropriate requirements for Class 1 duct materials in CAN/ULC-S110, “Test for Air Ducts,”
b) conform to Article 3.1.5.18. and Subsection 3.1.9.,
c) are not used in vertical runs serving more than 2 storeys, and
d) are not used in air duct systems in which the air temperature may exceed 120°C.
3) Duct sealants shall have a flame-spread rating of not more than 25 and a smoke developed classification of not more than 50.
4) Duct connectors that contain combustible materials and that are used between ducts and air outlet units shall
a) conform to the appropriate requirements for Class 1 air duct materials in CAN/ULC-S110, “Test for Air Ducts,”
b) be limited to 4 m in length,
c) be used only in horizontal runs, and
d) not penetrate required fire separations.
5) Except for exhaust ducts connected to laundry drying equipment, combustible ducts that are part of a duct system carrying only ventilation air and that are contained entirely within a dwelling unit need not comply with the requirements of Sentences (1) to (4).
6) Except as provided in Sentences 9.33.6.13.(2) and (3), ducts that are part of a return-air duct system and that are contained entirely within a dwelling unit need not comply with the requirements of Sentences (1) to (4).
7) Materials referred to in Sentences (1) to (6), when used in a location where they may be subjected to excessive moisture, shall
a) have no appreciable loss of strength when wet, and
b) be corrosion-resistant.
Tape
1) Tape used for sealing duct joints in air ducts, plenums and other parts of air duct systems shall meet the flame-resistance requirements for fabric in CAN/ULC-S109, “Flame Tests of Flame-Resistant Fabrics and Films.”
Coverings, Linings, Adhesives and Insulation
1) Coverings, linings and associated adhesives and insulation of air ducts, plenums and other parts of air duct systems shall be of noncombustible material when exposed to heated air or radiation from heat sources that would result in the exposed surface exceeding a temperature of 120°C.
9.33.6.3.
9.33.6.4.
9-220 Division B
Amended Page National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 9.33.6.5.
9.33.6.5.
4) Combustible coverings and linings described in Sentences (2), (3) and (6) shall not flame, glow, smoulder or smoke when tested in accordance with the method of test in ASTM C 411, “Hot-Surface Performance of High-Temperature Thermal Insulation,” at the maximum temperature to which the coverings and linings are to be exposed
in service.
5) Except as provided in Sentences (6) and (7), foamed plastic insulation shall not be used as part of an air duct or for insulating an air duct.
6) Foamed plastic insulation conforming to Article 9.25.2.2. is permitted to be used to insulate a galvanized steel, stainless steel or aluminum air duct, provided
a) the foamed plastic insulation applied to supply ductwork is not less than 3 m from the furnace bonnet,
b) the temperature within the ductwork where the insulation is installed is not greater than 50°C,
c) duct joints are taped with a product conforming to Sentence 9.33.6.3.(1),
d) return air plenums are separated from the foamed plastic insulation, and
e) the foamed plastic insulation is protected
i) by one of the interior finishes described in
Subsections 9.29.4. to 9.29.9.,
ii) provided the building does not contain a Group C major
occupancy, by sheet metal that is mechanically fastened to the supporting assembly independent of the insulation, is not less than 0.38 mm thick and has a melting point of 650°C or more, or
iii) by any thermal barrier that meets the requirements of Clause 3.1.5.15.(2)(e).
7) Foamed plastic insulation is permitted to be used in a ceiling space that acts as a return air plenum provided the foamed plastic insulation is protected from exposure
to the plenum in accordance with Sentence 3.1.5.14.(4).
8) Combustible coverings and linings of ducts, including associated adhesives and insulation, shall be interrupted
a) at the immediate area of operation of heat sources in a duct system, such as electric resistance heaters or fuel-burning heaters or furnaces, and
b) where the duct penetrates a fire separation.
9) Linings of ducts shall be installed so that they will not interfere with the operation of volume or balancing dampers or of fire dampers, fire stop flaps and other closures.
Galvanized Steel or Aluminum Supply Ducts
1) Galvanized steel or aluminum supply ducts shall conform to Table 9.33.6.5.
2) The design of fittings for ducts shall conform to ANSI/SMACNA 006, “HVAC
Duct Construction Standards – Metal and Flexible,” except that metal thicknesses shall conform to Table 9.33.6.5.
2) Except as provided in Sentence (3), when combustible coverings and linings, including associated adhesives and insulation, are used, they shall have
a) a flame-spread rating of not more than 25 on any exposed surface or any surface that would be exposed by cutting through the material in any direction, and
b) a smoke developed classification of not more than 50.
3) The outer covering of ducts, plenums and other parts of air duct systems used
within
a) an exposed surface flame-spread rating of not more than 75, and
b) a smoke developed classification greater than 50.
an assembly of combustible construction are permitted to have
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-221
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 9.33.6.6.
Division B
Type of Duct
Round ducts serving single dwelling units Round
Rectangular, enclosed
Rectangular, not enclosed, for single dwelling units, with required clearance up to 12 mm
Rectangular, not enclosed, with required clearance of more than 12 mm
Maximum Diameter, mm
125 or less 350
Over 350 —
—
—
—
—
—
Maximum Width or Depth, mm
Minimum metal thickness, mm Duct Material
9.33.6.6.
Construction of Ducts and Plenums
9.33.6.7.
5) Duct systems shall have no openings other than those required for the proper operation and maintenance of the system.
Installation of Ducts and Plenums
1) Air duct systems serving garages shall not be interconnected with other parts
of the dwelling unit.
2) Trunk supply ducts shall not be nailed directly to wood members.
3) Branch ducts shall be supported at suitable spacings to maintain alignment
and prevent sagging.
4) Ducts passing through unheated spaces shall have all joints taped or otherwise sealed to ensure that the ducts are airtight throughout their length.
5) Combustible ducts in concrete slabs-on-ground that are connected to a furnace supply plenum shall be located not closer than 600 mm to that plenum and not less than 600 mm from its connection to a riser or register.
6) Ducts in or beneath concrete slabs-on-ground shall be watertight and corrosion-, decay-, and mildew-resistant.
7) Underground ducts shall
a) be constructed to provide interior drainage from and access to all low
points, and
b) not be connected directly to a sewer.
Clearances of Ducts and Plenums
1) The clearance of furnace plenums from combustible material shall conform to the
appropriate standards in Sentence 9.33.5.2.(1).
9.33.6.8.
9-222 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Table 9.33.6.5.
Minimum Metal Thickness of Ducts Forming Part of Article 9.33.6.5.
1) Where the installation of heating supply ducts in walls and floors creates a space between the duct and construction material, the space shall be fire stopped with noncombustible material at each end.
2) Ducts shall be securely supported by metal hangers, straps, lugs or brackets, except that, where zero clearance is permitted, wooden brackets are permitted to be used.
3) All round duct joints shall be tight-fitting and lapped not less than 25 mm.
4) Rectangular duct connections shall be made with S and drive cleats or
equivalent mechanical connections.
— 0.254 — 0.33 — 0.41
350 0.33 Over 350 0.41 350 0.33 Over 350 0.41 350 0.41 Over 350 0.48
Galvanized Steel
Aluminum
0.30 0.30 0.41 0.30 0.41 0.41 0.48 0.41 0.48
         © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 9.33.6.11.
9.33.6.9.
9.33.6.10.
9.33.6.11.
2) Where the plenum clearance required in Sentence (1) is 75 mm or less, the clearance between a supply duct and combustible material shall
a) be equal to the required plenum clearance within 450 mm of the plenum, and
b) be not less than 12 mm at a distance of 450 mm or more from the plenum,
except that this clearance may be reduced to zero beyond a bend or offset in the duct sufficiently large to shield the remainder of the supply duct from direct radiation from the furnace heat exchanger. (See Note A-3.6.5.6.(2).)
3) Where the plenum clearance required in Sentence (1) is more than 75 mm but not more than 150 mm, the clearance between a supply duct and combustible material shall be
a) equal to the required plenum clearance within a horizontal distance of 1.8 m of the plenum, and
b) not less than 12 mm at a horizontal distance of 1.8 m or more from the plenum, except that this distance may be reduced to zero beyond a bend or offset in the duct sufficiently large to shield the remainder of the duct from direct radiation from the furnace heat exchanger. (See Note A-3.6.5.6.(3).)
4) Where the plenum clearance required in Sentence (1) is more than 150 mm, the clearance between a supply duct and combustible material shall be
a) equal to the required plenum clearance within a horizontal distance of 1 m of the plenum,
b) not less than 150 mm within a horizontal distance between 1 m and 1.8 m from the plenum, and
c) not less than 25 mm at a horizontal distance of 1.8 m or more from the plenum, except that this distance may be reduced to 8 mm beyond a bend or offset in the duct sufficiently large to shield the remainder of the supply duct from direct radiation from the furnace heat exchanger. (See Note A-3.6.5.6.(4).)
5) Where a register is installed in a floor directly over a pipeless furnace, a double-walled register box with not less than 100 mm between walls, or a register box with the warm-air passage completely surrounded by the cold-air passage, shall be permitted in lieu of the clearances listed in Sentences (2), (3) and (4).
Adjustable Dampers and Balance Stops
1) All branch supply ducts that are not fitted with diffusers with adjustable balance stops shall be supplied with adjustable dampers and fitted with devices to indicate the positions of the dampers.
Warm-Air Supply Outlets and Return Inlets — General
1) Supply outlets and return openings in the dwelling unit, when located less than 2 m above the floor, shall be protected by grilles having openings of a size that will not allow the passage of a 15 mm diam sphere.
2) Combustible grilles, diffusers and other devices for the supply and return air openings installed in walls and ceilings shall have a flame-spread rating of
a) not more than 200 in bathrooms, and
b) not more than 150 in rooms or spaces other than bathrooms.
Warm-Air Supply Outlets
1) In a dwelling unit, a warm-air supply outlet shall be provided in each finished
room that is located adjacent to unheated space.
2) Except as provided in Sentence (3), when a room described in Sentence (1) is located adjacent to exterior walls, such outlet shall be located so as to bathe at least one exterior wall or window with warm air, except in bathrooms, utility rooms or kitchens, where this may not be practical.
3) Where the heating system is also designed to provide ventilation air, ceiling outlets or outlets located high on interior walls are permitted to be installed, provided the outlets are designed for this purpose and are installed with diffusers.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-223
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 9.33.6.12. Division B
9.33.6.12.
9.33.6.13.
4) At least one warm-air supply outlet shall be provided for each 40 m2 of floor surface area in unfinished basements serving dwelling units, and it shall be located so as to provide adequate distribution of warm air throughout the basement.
5) At least one warm-air supply outlet shall be provided for each 80 m2 of floor surface area in heated crawl spaces serving dwelling units, and it shall be located so as to provide adequate distribution of warm air throughout the crawl space.
6) Except for pipeless furnaces, the capacity of warm-air supply outlets serving dwelling units shall be not less than the design heat loss from the area served and shall not exceed 3 kW per outlet.
7) In basements and heated crawl spaces, the calculated heat gain from the supply ducts and plenum surfaces is permitted to be considered in calculating the design heat loss.
8) The temperature of supply air at warm-air supply outlets shall not exceed 70°C.
9) Warm-air supply outlets located in finished areas shall be provided with
diffusers and adjustable openings and shall not be located on a furnace plenum. Return-Air Inlets
1) Return-air inlets shall not be installed in an enclosed room or crawl space that provides combustion air to a furnace.
2) Except for unfinished areas and floor levels which are less than 900 mm above or below an adjacent floor level which is provided with a return-air inlet, at least one return-air inlet shall be provided in each floor level in a dwelling unit.
3) Provision shall be made for the return of air from all rooms by leaving gaps beneath doors, using louvred doors or installing return duct inlets.
Return-Air System
(See Note A-9.33.6.13.)
1) The return-air system shall be designed to handle the entire air supply.
2) Where any part of a return duct will be exposed to radiation from the furnace
heat exchanger or other radiating part within the furnace, such part of a return duct directly above or within 600 mm of the outside furnace casing shall be noncombustible.
3) Return ducts serving solid-fuel-burning furnaces shall be constructed of noncombustible material.
4) Combustible return ducts shall be lined with noncombustible material
a) below floor registers,
b) at the bottom of vertical ducts, and
c) under furnaces having a bottom return.
5) Spaces between studs or joists used as return ducts shall be separated from the unused portions of such spaces by tight-fitting metal stops or wood blocking.
6) A vertical return duct shall have openings to return air on not more than one floor.
7) The return-air system shall be designed so that the negative pressure from the circulating fan cannot
a) affect the furnace combustion air supply, nor
b) draw combustion products from joints or openings in the furnace or flue pipe.
Filters and Odour Removal Equipment
1) Air filters for air duct systems shall conform to the requirements for Class 2 air
filter units as described in CAN/ULC-S111, “Fire Tests for Air Filter Units.”
2) When electrostatic-type filters are used, they shall be installed so as to ensure that the electric circuit is automatically de-energized when filter access doors are opened or, in dwelling units, when the furnace circulation fan is not operating.
9.33.6.14.
9-224 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
9.33.8.2.
9.33.7. 9.33.7.1.
9.33.7.2.
9.33.8. 9.33.8.1.
Radiators and Convectors Recessed Radiators and Convectors
1) Every steam or hot water radiator and convector located in a recess or concealed space or attached to the face of a wall of combustible construction shall be provided with a noncombustible lining or backing.
Surface Temperature
1) The exposed surface temperature of a steam or hot water radiator shall not
exceed 70°C unless precautions are taken to prevent human contact.
Piping for Heating and Cooling Systems Piping Materials and Installation
1) Piping shall be made from materials designed to withstand the effects of temperatures and pressures that may occur in the system. (See Articles 3.1.5.19., 3.1.9.1. and 9.10.9.6. for fire safety requirements.)
2) Every pipe used in a heating or air-conditioning system shall be installed to allow for expansion and contraction due to temperature changes.
3) Supports and anchors for piping in a heating or air-conditioning system shall be designed and installed to ensure that undue stress is not placed on the supporting structure.
Insulation and Coverings
1) Insulation and coverings on pipes shall be composed of material suitable for the operating temperature of the system to withstand deterioration from softening, melting, mildew and mould.
2) Insulation and coverings on pipes in which the temperature of the fluid exceeds 120°C
a) shall be made of noncombustible material, or
b) shall not flame, glow, smoulder or smoke when tested in accordance with
ASTM C 411, “Hot-Surface Performance of High-Temperature Thermal Insulation,” at the maximum temperature to which such insulation or covering is to be exposed in service.
3) Except as provided in Sentence (6), where combustible insulation is used on piping in a horizontal or vertical service space, the insulation and coverings on such pipes shall have a flame-spread rating throughout the material of not more than
a) 25 in buildings of noncombustible construction, and
b) 75 in buildings of combustible construction.
4) Except as provided in Sentence (6), insulation and coverings on piping located in rooms and spaces other than the service spaces described in Sentence (3) shall have a flame-spread rating not more than that required for the interior finish for the ceiling of the room or space.
5) Pipes that are exposed to human contact shall be insulated so that the exposed surface does not exceed 70°C. (See Note A-6.5.1.1.(3).)
6) No flame-spread rating or smoke developed classification limitations are required where combustible insulation and coverings are used on piping when such piping is
a) located within a concealed space in a wall,
b) located in a floor slab, or
9.33.8.2.
3)
a) b)
When odour removal equipment of the adsorption type is used it shall be installed to provide access so that adsorption material can be reactivated or renewed, and
protected from dust accumulation by air filters installed on the inlet side.
c) enclosed in a noncombustible raceway or conduit.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-225
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 9.33.8.3. Division B
9.33.8.3.
Clearances
1) Clearances between combustible material and bare pipes carrying steam or hot
water shall conform to Table 9.33.8.3.
Table 9.33.8.3.
Clearance between Steam or Hot Water Pipes and Combustible Material Forming Part of Sentence 9.33.8.3.(1)
9.33.8.4.
9.33.9. 9.33.9.1.
9.33.10. 9.33.10.1.
9.33.10.2.
9.33.10.3.
1) Where a pipe carrying steam or hot water at a temperature above 120°C passes through a combustible floor, ceiling or wall, the construction shall be protected by a sleeve of metal or other noncombustible material not less than 50 mm larger in diameter than the pipe.
2) Unprotected steam or hot water pipes that pass through a storage space shall be covered with not less than 25 mm thickness of noncombustible insulation to prevent direct contact with the material stored.
Refrigerating Systems and Equipment for Air-conditioning Cooling Units
1) Where a cooling unit is combined with a fuel-fired furnace in the same duct system, the cooling unit shall be installed
a) in parallel with the heating furnace,
b) upstream of the furnace, provided the furnace is designed for such
application, or
c) downstream of the furnace, provided the cooling unit is designed to prevent
excessive temperature or pressure in the refrigeration system.
Chimneys and Venting Equipment Requirement for Venting
1) Except as provided in Articles 9.33.10.2. and 9.33.10.3., the products of combustion from oil-, gas- and solid-fuel-burning appliances, including stoves, cooktops, ovens and space heaters, shall be vented in conformance with the applicable appliance installation standard listed in Sentences 9.33.5.2.(1) and 9.33.5.3.(1).
Factory-Built Chimneys
1) Factory-built chimneys serving solid-fuel-burning appliances, and their installation, shall conform to CAN/ULC-S629, “650°C Factory-Built Chimneys.” (See Note A-9.33.10.2.(1).)
Masonry or Concrete Chimneys
1) Masonry or concrete chimneys shall conform to Section 9.21.
9-226 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Steam or Water Temperature (T), °C
T ≤ 95
95 < T ≤ 120 T > 120
Protection
Minimum Clearance, mm
no clearance required 15
25
   © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 9.34.2.2.
Section 9.34. Electrical Facilities
9.34.1. 9.34.1.1.
9.34.1.2.
9.34.1.3.
9.34.1.4.
9.34.1.5.
General
Standard for Electrical Installations
1) Electrical installations, including the service capacity of the installation and the number and distribution of circuits and receptacles, shall meet the requirements of the appropriate provincial, territorial or municipal legislation or, in the absence of such legislation, shall conform to CSA C22.1, “Canadian Electrical Code, Part I.”
Required Facilities
1) Where electrical services are available, electrical facilities shall be provided for
every building in conformance with this Section. Location of Equipment in Public Areas
1) Entrance switches, meters, panel boxes, splitter boxes, time clocks and other similar equipment shall not be located in any public area unless adequate precautions are taken to prevent interference with the equipment.
Recessed Lighting Fixtures
1) Recessed lighting fixtures shall not be located in insulated ceilings unless the
fixtures are designed for such installations.
Wiring and Cables
1) Except as required in Sentence (2), optical fibre cables and electrical wires and cables installed in buildings permitted to be of combustible construction shall
a) not convey flame or continue to burn for more than 1 min when tested in conformance with the Vertical Flame Test (FT1 rating) in CSA C22.2 No. 0.3, “Test Methods for Electrical Wires and Cables,” or
b) be located in
i) totally enclosed noncombustible raceways (see
Note A-3.1.4.3.(1)(b)(i)),
ii) masonry walls,
iii) concrete slabs, or
iv) totally enclosed non-metallic raceways conforming to
Clause 3.1.5.23.(1)(b).
2) Except as permitted in Sentence (3), where a concealed space in a floor or ceiling assembly is used as a plenum, electrical wires and cables with combustible insulation, jackets or sheathes that are used for the transmission of voice, sound or data and optical fibre cables installed within the plenum shall conform to Clause 3.6.4.3.(1)(a).
3) Wires or cables within plenum spaces that are used for the transmission of signals in fire alarm, security, radio, and television broadcasting, closed circuit television or community television systems need not meet the requirements of Sentence (2).
Lighting Outlets
(See Note A-9.34.2.)
Lighting of Entrances
1) An exterior lighting outlet with fixture controlled by a wall switch located within the building shall be provided at every entrance to buildings of residential occupancy.
Outlets in Dwelling Units
1) Except as provided in Sentence (2), a lighting outlet with fixture controlled by
a wall switch shall be provided in kitchens, bedrooms, living rooms, utility rooms,
9.34.2. 9.34.2.1.
9.34.2.2.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-227
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 9.34.2.3.
Division B
9.34.2.3.
laundry rooms, dining rooms, bathrooms, water-closet rooms, vestibules and hallways in dwelling units.
2) Where a receptacle controlled by a wall switch is provided in bedrooms or living rooms, such rooms need not conform to the requirements in Sentence (1).
Stairways
1) Every stairway shall be lighted.
2) Except as provided in Sentence (3), 3-way wall switches located at the head and
foot of every stairway shall be provided to control at least one lighting outlet with fixture for stairways with 4 or more risers in dwelling units and houses with a secondary suite including their common spaces.
3) The stairway lighting for basements that do not contain finished space or lead to an outside entrance or built-in garage and which serve not more than one dwelling unit is permitted to be controlled by a single switch located at the head of the stairs.
Basements
1) A lighting outlet with fixture shall be provided for each 30 m2 or fraction
thereof of floor area in unfinished basements.
2) The outlet required in Sentence (1) nearest the stairs shall be controlled by a
wall switch located at the head of the stairs.
Storage Rooms
1) A lighting outlet with fixture shall be provided in storage rooms.
Garages and Carports
1) A lighting outlet with fixture shall be provided for an attached, built-in or
detached garage or carport.
2) Except as provided in Sentence (3), outlets required in Sentence (1) shall be controlled by a wall switch near the doorway.
3) Where the outlet and fixture required in Sentence (1) are ceiling mounted above an area not normally occupied by a parked car, or are wall mounted, a fixture with a built-in switch accessible to an adult of average height is permitted to be used.
4) Where a carport is lighted by a light at the entrance to a dwelling unit, additional carport lighting is not required.
Public and Service Areas
1) Every public or service area in buildings shall be provided with lighting outlets with fixtures controlled by a wall switch or panel to illuminate every portion of such areas.
2) When provided by incandescent lighting, illumination required in Sentence (1) shall conform to Table 9.34.2.7. (See Article 9.9.12.2. for lighting in means of egress.)
3) When other types of lighting are used, illumination equivalent to that shown in Table 9.34.2.7. shall be provided.
9.34.2.4.
9.34.2.5.
9.34.2.6.
9.34.2.7.
9-228 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
9.35.3.1.
Room or Space
Storage rooms
Service rooms and laundry areas Garages
Public water closet rooms Service hallways and stairways Recreation rooms
Table 9.34.2.7.
Lighting for Public Areas
Forming Part of Sentences 9.34.2.7.(2) and (3)
Minimum Illumination, lx
Minimum Lighting Power Density, W/m 2 of floor area (incandescent lighting)
5 20 5 10 5 10
9.34.3. 9.34.3.1.
Emergency Lighting Criteria for Emergency Lighting
1) Emergency lighting shall conform to Subsection 9.9.12. Section 9.35. Garages and Carports
9.35.1. 9.35.1.1.
9.35.1.2.
9.35.2. 9.35.2.1.
9.35.2.2.
9.35.3. 9.35.3.1.
Scope Application
50
200
50
100
50
100
1) This Section applies to garages and carports serving not more than one dwelling unit.
Construction Requirements
1) The construction of a garage or carport shall conform to the requirements for
other buildings in this Part except as provided in this Section. General
Carport Considered to be Garage
1) Where a roofed enclosure used for the storage or parking of motor vehicles has more than 60% of the total perimeter enclosed by walls, doors or windows, the enclosure shall be considered a garage.
Garage Floor
1) The floor of an attached or built-in garage shall conform to Article 3.7.2.7.
Foundations Foundation Required
1) Except as permitted in this Subsection, foundations conforming to Sections 9.12. and 9.15. shall be provided for the support of carport and garage super-structures, including that portion beneath garage doors.
2) Detached garages of less than 55 m2 floor area and not more than 1 storey in height that are not of masonry or masonry veneer construction are permitted to be supported on
a) wood mud sills, or
b) a 100 mm thick concrete floor slab.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-229
    © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 9.35.3.2.
Division B
9.35.3.2.
Protection from Damage due to Soil Movement
1) In clay-type soils subject to significant movement with a change in soil moisture content, the foundation depth of carports or garages connected to a dwelling unit directly or by a breezeway shall be approximately the same depth as the main building foundation.
2) Where slab-on-ground construction is used, a construction joint shall be provided between the main building slab and a slab serving an attached garage, breezeway or carport.
3) Except as provided in Section 9.12., foundations for attached unheated garages or carports shall be below frost level.
Drainage
1) Detached garages of less than 55 m2 floor area and not more than 1 storey in height that are not of masonry or masonry veneer construction need not conform with the foundation drainage requirements stated in Section 9.14., where the finished ground level is at or near the elevation of the garage’s floor and where the ground slopes away from the building.
Column Piers
1) Piers for the support of carport columns shall extend not less than 150 mm
above ground level.
2) Piers referred to in Sentence (1) shall project not less than 25 mm beyond the base of the column but in no case be less than 190 mm by 190 mm in size.
Walls and Columns Interior Finish
1) Interior finish need not be applied to garage and carport walls. Columns
1) Columns for garages and carports shall conform to Section 9.17., except that 89 mm by 89 mm wood columns may be used.
Anchorage
1) Garage or carport walls and columns shall be anchored to the foundation to resist wind uplift in conformance with Subsection 9.23.6., except that where a garage is supported on the surface of the ground, ground anchors shall be provided to resist wind uplift.
9.35.3.3.
9.35.3.4.
9.35.4. 9.35.4.1.
9.35.4.2.
9.35.4.3.
Section 9.36. Deleted
Section 9.37. Objectives and Functional Statements
9.37.1. 9.37.1.1.
Objectives and Functional Statements Attributions to Acceptable Solutions
1) For the purpose of compliance with this Code as required in
Clause 1.2.1.1.(1)(b) of Division A, the objectives and functional statements attributed to the acceptable solutions in this Part shall be the objectives and functional statements listed in Table 9.37.1.1. (See Note A-1.1.2.1.(1).)
9-230 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
9.37.1.1.
Table 9.37.1.1.
Objectives and Functional Statements Attributed to the Acceptable Solutions in Part 9
Forming Part of Sentence 9.37.1.1.(1)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.1.2.1. Floor Area Limits for Secondary Suites
(1) [F05-OS1.5] [F05-OS3.7]
9.3.1.1. General
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20,F21,F80-OS2.3]
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.4] [F21-OP2.3,OP2.4] [F20,F80-OP2.3]
[F20,F21,F80-OH4] Applies where concrete elements support wood-frame floors.
[F20,F21,F80-OS1.1] Applies where concrete supports or is used in chimneys or fireplaces.
(4)
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.3.1.2. Cement
(1)
[F20,F21,F80-OH4] Applies to elements that support floors.
[F20,F80-OS1.1] Applies where concrete supports or is used in chimneys or fireplaces.
[F80-OH4] Applies where concrete elements support wood-frame floors.
[F80-OS1.1] Applies where concrete is used in footings for chimneys or fireplaces.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-231
[F20,F80-OH4] Applies where concrete elements support wood-frame floors.
[F20,F80-OS1.1] Applies where concrete supports or is used in chimneys or fireplaces.
9.3.1.3. Concrete in Contact with Sulphate Soil
(1)
      [F20-OS2.1]
[F80-OS2.3]
[F20-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.4]
[F80-OP2.3,OP2.4]
[F20-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20,F80-OH1.1] Applies where concrete supports or is used in the walls of chimneys or fireplaces. [F20,F80,F61,F55-OH1.1,OH1.2] [F20,F80,F61-OH1.3] Applies where concrete supports or is used in an environmental separator.
             [F20,F21,F80-OH1.1] Applies where concrete supports or is used in the walls of chimneys or fireplaces. [F20,F21,F55,F61,F80-OH1.1,OH1.2] [F20,F21,F61,F80-OH1.3] Applies where concrete supports or is used in an environmental separator.
     [F20,F80-OS3.1] Applies to concrete floors or steps, concrete that supports wood-frame floors or steps, and concrete steps that support guards or handrails.
[F20,F80-OS3.4,OS3.7] Applies where concrete supports or is used in chimneys or fireplaces.
     [F20,F21,F80-OS3.1,OS3.7] Applies to concrete floors or steps, concrete that supports wood-frame floors or steps, and concrete steps that support guards or handrails. [F20,F21,F80-OS3.4] Applies where concrete supports or is used in chimneys or fireplaces.
     [F20-OS2.1]
[F80-OS2.3]
[F20-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.4]
[F80-OP2.3,OP2.4]
[F20-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F80-OH1.1] Applies where concrete supports or is used in the walls of chimneys or fireplaces.
[F80-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies where concrete supports or is used in an environmental separator.
    [F20-OS2.1]
[F80-OS2.3]
[F20-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.4]
[F21,F80-OP2.3,OP2.4]
[F20-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20,F21,F80-OH1.1] Applies where concrete supports or is used in the walls of chimneys or fireplaces. [F20,F21,F80,F61,F55-OH1.1,OH1.2] [F20,F21,F80,F61-OH1.3] Applies to elements that
support or are part of an environmental separator.
         [F80-OS3.1] Applies to concrete floors or steps, concrete that supports wood-frame floors or steps, and concrete steps that support guards or handrails.
[F80-OS3.4,OS3.7] Applies where concrete supports or is used in chimneys or fireplaces.
    [F20,F80-OS3.1] Applies to concrete that supports wood-frame floors or steps.
[F20,F80-OS3.4,OS3.7] Applies where concrete supports or is used in chimneys or fireplaces.
    © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 9.37.1.1.
Division B
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.3.1.4. Aggregates
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.3.1.6. Compressive Strength
(1)
(1)
9.3.1.5. Water
(1)
[F20,F80-OS1.1] Applies to concrete used in chimneys or fireplaces.
[F20,F80-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
(a) [F20,F21,F80-OH4] Applies to elements that support floors.
(a) [F20,F21,F80-OS1.1] Applies where concrete supports or is used in chimneys or fireplaces.
(b) [F20,F21,F80,F61,F55-OH1.1,OH1.2] [F20,F21,F80,F61-OH1.3]
(b) [F20,F21,F80-OS3.1]
(c) [F20-OS2.1] [F20,F21,F80-OS2.3]
(c) [F20-OP2.1] [F20,F21,F80-OP2.3,OP2.4] (c) [F20,F21,F80-OS3.1]
[F20,F80-OH4] Applies where concrete elements support wood-frame floors.
[F20,F80-OS1.1] Applies where concrete supports or is used in chimneys or fireplaces.
(2) [F80-OS3.1]
9-232 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
       [F20-OS2.1]
[F80-OS2.3]
[F20-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.4]
[F80-OP2.3,OP2.4]
[F20-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20,F80,F61,F55-OH1.1,OH1.2] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator and to masonry used in chimneys and fireplaces. [F20,F80,F61-OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator and to masonry used in chimneys and fireplaces.
    (a) [F20-OS2.1]
(a) [F21,F80-OS2.3]
(a) [F20-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   (a) [F20-OP2.1,OP2.4]
(a) [F21-OP2.3,OP2.4]
(a) [F80-OP2.3]
(a) [F20-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   (a) [F20,F80-OH1.1] Applies where concrete supports or is used in the walls of chimneys or fireplaces.
(a) [F20,F80,F61,F55-OH1.1,OH1.2] [F20,F80,F61-OH1.3] Applies where concrete supports or is used in an environmental separator.
         (a) [F20,F80-OS3.1] Applies to elements that support floors or steps.
(a) [F20,F80-OS3.4,OS3.7] Applies where concrete supports or is used in chimneys or fireplaces.
     [F20,F80-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F80-OS3.4] Applies to concrete used in chimneys or fireplaces.
    (b) [F20-OS2.1]
(b) [F21,F80-OS2.3]
(b) [F20-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   (b) [F20-OP2.1,OP2.4]
(b) [F21-OP2.3,OP2.4]
(b) [F80-OP2.3]
(b) [F20-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
      [F20-OS2.1]
[F80-OS2.3]
[F20-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.4]
[F80-OP2.3,OP2.4]
[F20-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20,F80,F61,F55-OH1.1,OH1.2] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator and to masonry used in chimneys and fireplaces. [F20,F80,F61-OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator and to masonry used in chimneys and fireplaces.
             [F20,F80-OS3.1] Applies to concrete floors or steps, concrete that supports wood-frame floors or steps, and concrete steps that support guards or handrails.
[F20,F80-OS3.4,OS3.7] Applies where concrete supports or is used in chimneys or fireplaces.
   © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
9.37.1.1.
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.3.1.7. Concrete Mixes
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
(1)
(a) [F20,F21,F61-OH4] Applies to elements that support floors.
(a) [F20,F21,F61-OS1.1] Applies where concrete supports or is used in chimneys or fireplaces.
(b) [F20,F21,F80,F61,F55-OH1.1,OH1.2] [F20,F21,F80,F61-OH1.3]
(b) [F20,F21,F80-OS3.1]
(c) [F20,F21-OS2.1] [F20,F21,F80-OS2.3] (c) [F20,F21,F80-OS3.1]
(c) [F20,F21,F80-OP2.3,OP2.4]
[F20,F21,F61,F55-OH4] Applies where concrete elements support wood-frame floors.
[F20,F21-OS1.1] Applies where concrete supports or is used in chimneys or fireplaces.
9.3.1.8. Admixtures
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-233
(2)
(1)
[F20,F21,F80-OH4] Applies where concrete elements support wood-frame floors.
[F20,F21,F80-OS1.1] Applies where concrete supports or is used in chimneys or fireplaces.
      [F20-OS2.1]
[F21-OS2.3]
[F20,F61,F55-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.4]
[F21-OP2.3,OP2.4]
[F20,F61,F55-OP2.3] Applies where concrete supports or is used in an environmental separator.
   [F20,F21,F61,F55-OH1.1] Applies where concrete supports or is used in the walls of chimneys or fireplaces. [F20,F21-OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies where concrete supports or is used in an environmental separator.
    (a) [F20-OS2.1]
(a) [F21-OS2.3]
(a) [F20,F61,F55-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   (a) [F20-OP2.1,OP2.4]
(a) [F21-OP2.3,OP2.4]
(a) [F20,F55,F61-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   (a) [F20,F21,F80-OH1.1] Applies where concrete supports or is used in the walls of chimneys or fireplaces.
(a) [F20,F21,F80,F61,F55-OH1.1,OH1.2] [F20,F21,F80,F61-OH1.3] Applies where concrete
supports or is used in an environmental separator.
         [F20,F80-OS3.1] Applies to concrete floors or steps, concrete that supports wood-frame floors or steps, and concrete steps that support guards or handrails.
[F20,F80-OS3.4,OS3.7] Applies where concrete supports or is used in chimneys or fireplaces.
    (a) [F20,F21,F61-OS3.1] Applies to concrete floors or steps, concrete that supports wood-frame floors or steps, and concrete steps that support guards or handrails.
(a) [F20,F21,F61-OS3.4,OS3.7] Applies where concrete supports or is used in chimneys or fireplaces.
      [F20-OS2.1]
[F21-OS2.3]
[F20,F61,F55-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.4]
[F21-OP2.3,OP2.4]
[F80-OP2.3,OP2.4]
[F20-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20,F80-OH1.1] Applies where concrete supports or is used in the walls of chimneys or fireplaces. [F20,F80,F61,F55-OH1.1,OH1.2] [F20,F80,F61-OH1.3] Applies where concrete supports or is used in an environmental separator.
    (b) [F20-OS2.1]
(b) [F21,F80-OS2.3]
(b) [F20-OS2.3] Applies where concrete is used in an environmental separator.
   (b) [F20-OP2.1,OP2.4]
(b) [F21-OP2.3,OP2.4]
(b) [F80-OP2.3]
(b) [F20-OP2.3] Applies where concrete is used in an environmental separator.
             [F20,F80-OS3.1] Applies to concrete floors or steps, concrete that supports wood-frame floors or steps, and concrete steps that support guards or handrails.
[F20,F80-OS3.4,OS3.7] Applies where concrete supports or is used in chimneys or fireplaces.
   © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 9.37.1.1.
Division B
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.3.1.9. Cold Weather Requirements
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.3.2.2. Lumber Grades
(1) [F20-OS2.1]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors. [F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, or elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F20,F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
9.3.2.5. Moisture Content
(1) [F21,F80-OS2.3] [F21,F80-OP2.3,OP2.4]
[F21,F80-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F21,F80-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F21,F80-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F21,F80-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
9.3.2.8. Undersized Lumber
(1) [F20-OS2.1]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F20,F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
(1)
(2)
[F20,F21,F80-OH4] Applies where concrete elements support wood-frame floors.
[F20,F21,F80-OS1.1] Applies where concrete supports or is used in chimneys or fireplaces.
[F20-OS2.1]
[F20,F61,F55-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.4]
[F20,F61,F55-OP2.3] [F61,F55-OP2.4] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OS1.1] Applies to concrete that supports or is used in chimneys or fireplaces.
[F20,F61,F55-OH4] Applies to elements that support floors.
9-234 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
       [F20-OS2.1]
[F21-OS2.3]
[F20-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.4]
[F21,F80-OP2.3,OP2.4]
[F20-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20,F80-OH1.1] Applies where concrete supports or is used in the walls of chimneys or fireplaces. [F20,F80,F61,F55-OH1.1,OH1.2] [F20,F80,F61-OH1.3] Applies where concrete supports or is used in an environmental separator.
      [F20-OP2.1,OP2.4]
[F22-OP2.4]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
          [F20,F80-OS3.1] Applies to concrete floors or steps, concrete that supports wood-frame floors or steps, and concrete steps that support guards or handrails.
[F20,F80-OS3.4,OS3.7] Applies where concrete supports or is used in chimneys or fireplaces.
        [F20-OH1.1] Applies where concrete supports or is used in the walls of chimneys or fireplaces.
[F20,F61,F55-OH1.1,OH1.2] [F20,F61-OH1.3] Applies where concrete supports or is used in an environmental separator.
           [F20-OP2.1,OP2.4]
[F22-OP2.4]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
     [F20,F61,F55-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F61,F55-OS3.4] Applies to concrete that supports or is used in chimneys or fireplaces.
       © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
9.37.1.1.
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.3.2.9. Termite and Decay Protection
(1) [F82,F80-OS2.3] [F82,F80-OP2.3,OP2.4]
[F82,F80,F61,F55-OH1.1,OH1.2] [F82,F80,F61-OH1.3] Applies where structural wood elements support or are used in an environmental separator.
[F82,F80-OH4] Applies where structural wood elements support or are used in floors.
[F82,F80-OS3.1] Applies where structural wood elements support or are used in floors.
[F82,F80-OS1.2] Applies where structural wood elements support or are used in assemblies that are required to provide fire resistance.
(2) [F80,F82-OS2.3] [F80,F82-OP2.3,OP2.4]
[F82,F80,F61,F55-OH1.1,OH1.2] [F82,F80,F61-OH1.3] Applies where structural wood elements support or are used in an environmental separator.
[F82,F80-OH4] Applies where structural wood elements support or are used in floors.
[F82,F80-OS3.1] Applies where structural wood elements support or are used in floors.
[F82,F80-OS1.2] Applies where structural wood elements support or are used in assemblies that are required to provide fire resistance.
(3) [F80-OS2.3] [F80-OP2.3,OP2.4]
[F82,F80,F61,F55-OH1.1,OH1.2] [F82,F80,F61-OH1.3] Applies where structural wood elements support or are used in an environmental separator.
[F80-OH4] Applies where structural wood elements support or are used in floors.
[F80-OS3.1] Applies where structural wood elements support or are used in floors.
[F80-OS1.2] Applies where structural wood elements support or are used in assemblies that are required to provide fire resistance.
(4) [F80-OS2.3,OS2.5] [F80-OP2.3,OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F80,F61,F55-OH1.1,OH1.2] [F80,F61-OH1.3] Applies where cribbing or retaining walls support an environmental separator.
[F80-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F80-OS3.1] Applies where cribbing or retaining walls support floors.
[F80-OS1.2] Applies where cribbing or retaining walls support assemblies that are required to provide fire resistance.
(5)
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
[F80,F81-OS2.3,OS2.4] [F80,F81-OP2.3,OP2.4]
[F55,F61,F80,F81-OH1.1,OH1.2] [F61,F80,F81-OH1.3] Applies where structural wood elements support or are used in an environmental separator.
[F80,F81-OH4] Applies where structural wood elements support wood-frame floors.
[F80,F81-OS3.1] Applies where structural wood elements support or are used in floors.
[F80,F81-OS1.2] Applies where structural wood elements support or are used in assemblies that are required to provide fire resistance.
[F20,F60-OS2.3] [F20,F61-OP2.3,OP2.4]
[F20,F55,F61-OH1.1,OH1.2] [F20,F61-OH1.3] Applies where structural wood elements support or are used in an environmental separator.
[F61,F80-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F61-OS3.1] Applies where structural wood elements support or are used in floors.
[F80,F81-OS1.2] Applies where structural wood elements support or are used in assemblies that are required to provide fire resistance.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-235
(6)
9.3.3.2. Galvanized Sheet Steel
(1) [F80-OS2.3] [F80-OP2.3,OP2.4]
[F80-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies where sheet metal is used in an environmental separator.
[F80-OS3.1] Applies where sheet metal is used in assemblies that support floors.
[F80-OH4] Applies where sheet metal is used in assemblies that support floors.
(2) [F80-OS2.3] [F80-OP2.3]
[F80-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
9.4.2.2. Specified Snow Loads
(1) [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3] [F22-OS2.3] [F20-OP2.1,OP2.3] [F22-OP2.3] [F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
(2) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
9.4.2.3. Platforms Subject to Snow and Occupancy Loads
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
                                                           © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 9.37.1.1.
Division B
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.4.2.4. Attics and Roof Spaces
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1] 9.4.3.1. Deflections
(1) [F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F22-OP2.1,OP2.4]
[F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F22-OH4]
[F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors. [F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
[F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
9.4.4.1. Allowable Bearing Pressures
(1) [F20-OS2.2]
[F20-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OP2.2,OP2.4]
[F20-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to footings that support an environmental separator.
[F20-OH4] Applies to footings that support floors and other elements that support floors.
9.4.4.2. Foundation Capacity in Weaker Soil and Rock
(1) [F20-OS2.2]
[F20-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OP2.2,OP2.4]
[F20-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
(2) [F20-OS2.2]
[F20-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OP2.2,OP2.4]
[F20-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors. [F20-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.4.4.3. High Water Table
(1) [F20-OS2.2]
[F20-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OP2.2,OP2.4]
[F20-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
9.4.4.4. Soil Movement
(1) [F21-OS2.1]
[F21-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F21-OP2.1,OP2.4]
[F21-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F21-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to walls that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F21-OH4] Applies to foundations that support floors and other elements that support floors.
9.4.4.5. Retaining Walls
(1) [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3] [F20-OP2.1,OP2.3,OP2.4]
[F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F20-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors. [F20-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
9.4.4.6. Walls Supporting Drained Earth
(1) [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3] [F20-OP2.1,OP2.3,OP2.4]
[F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F20-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors. [F20-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
(2) [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3] [F20-OP2.1,OP2.3,OP2.4]
[F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F20-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors. [F20-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
9-236 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
                            [F21-OS3.1] Applies to footings that support floors and other elements that support floors.
[F21-OS3.7] Applies to footings that support walls that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
       [F20-OS3.1] Applies to footings that support floors and other elements that support floors.
[F20-OS3.7] Applies to footings that support walls that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
                              © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
9.37.1.1.
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.5.1.2. Combination Rooms
(2) [F10-OS3.7]
9.5.3.1. Ceiling Heights of Rooms or Spaces
(1) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
(2) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
(3) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
(4) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
9.5.3.2. Mezzanines
(1) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
9.5.3.3. Storage Garages
(1) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
9.5.4.1. Hallway Width
(1) [F10-OS3.7]
9.5.5.1. Doorway Opening Sizes
(1) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
(2) [F10-OS3.7] [F30-OS3.1]
9.5.5.2. Doorways to Public Water-Closet Rooms
(1) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
9.5.5.3. Doorways to Rooms with a Bathtub, Shower or Water Closet
(2) [F74-OA2]
9.6.1.2. Material Standards for Glass
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F63-OS2.3]
(e),(h) [F63-OH1.1] [F51,F63-OH1.2] (g) [F03-OS1.2]
(2) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
9.6.1.3. Structural Sufficiency of Glass
(1) [F20-OS2.1]
(2) [F20-OS2.1]
(3) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
9.6.1.4. Types of Glass and Protection of Glass (1) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
(3) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
(4) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7] Applies to portion of Code text: “... except that such partitions shall be suitably marked to indicate their existence and position.”
(5) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
(6) [F20,F30-OS3.1]
9.7.2.1. Entrance Doors
(1) [F42-OH2.5]
[F51,F54-OH1.2] [F40,F61,F42-OH1.1]
[F61,F42-OS2.3]
(2) [F35-OS4.2]
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.7.3.1. General Performance Expectations
(1)
(2) [F81-OH1.1] Applies to skylights that provide required non-heating season ventilation.
[F20,F22-OH1.3]
[F20-OS2.1,OS2.3] (3) [F42,F55-OH1.1]
[F42-OH2.5] [F81-OS3.7] [F34-OS4.1]
(4) [F20,F22-OS2.3] [F30-OS3.1]
[F20,F61-OH1.1,OH1.2]
[F34-OS4.1]
9.7.3.2. Heat Transfer Performance
(1) [F51,F63-OH1.1,OH1.2] [F63-OS2.3]
9.7.3.3. Thermal Characteristics of Windows, Doors and Skylights
(1) [F63-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F63-OS2.3]
(4) [F63-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F63-OS2.3]
[F63-OS3.1]
9.7.4.2. General
(1)
9.7.4.3. Performance Requirements
(1) [F20,F55,F61-OH1.1] [F55-OH1.2] [F20,F61,F62-OH1.3]
(3) [F40,F42,F61-OH1.1] [F54,F55,F61,F62-OH1.2] [F61,F62,F63-OH1.3]
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Amended Page Division B 9-237
[F20,F55,F61-OS2.1,OS2.3] [F42-OH2.5]
[F81-OS3.7]
[F34-OS4.1]
[F20,F21,F61-OS2.3]
       [F42,F55,F61,F62,F63-OH1.1]
[F81-OH1.1] Applies to windows that provide required non-heating season ventilation. [F54,F55,F61,F62,F63-OH1.2] [F61,F62,F63-OH1.3]
                                                       [F20,F55,F61,F62,F63-OH1.1]
[F81-OH1.1] Applies to windows that provide required non-heating season ventilation. [F54,F55,F61,F62,F63-OH1.2] [F20,F61,F62,F63-OH1.3]
        [F10-OS1.5] Applies where windows, doors or skylights serve bedrooms, except bedrooms that have direct access to the exterior through an exit door or bedrooms that are in sprinklered suites.
             © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 9.37.1.1.
Division B
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
(4) [F40,F61,F42-OH1.1] [F51,F54-OH1.2] [F61,F42-OS2.3]
[F80-OS3.7] [F80-OS4.1] [F42-OH2.5]
9.7.5.2. Resistance to Forced Entry for Doors
(2) [F34-OS4.1]
(3) [F20-OS4.1]
(4) [F34-OS4.1]
(5) [F34-OS4.1]
(6) [F20-OS4.1]
(7) [F20-OS4.1]
(8) [F34-OS4.1]
(9) [F20-OS4.1]
9.7.5.3. Resistance to Forced Entry for Windows (1) [F34-OS4.1]
9.7.6.1. Installation of Windows, Doors and Skylights
(1) [F20,F54,F55,F61,F63-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F20,F61,F63-OS2.3]
(2) [F54,F55,F61,F63-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61,F63-OS2.3]
(3) [F55,F61,F63-OS2.3] [F55,F61,F63-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
9.7.6.2. Sealants, Trim and Flashing
(1) [F61,F63-OH1.1,OH1.3] [F51,F54,F61,F63-OH1.2] [F61,F63-OS2.3]
(4) [F80-OS2.1,OS2.3] [F80-OP2.1,OP2.3]
[F80-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
9.8.2.1. Stair Width
(1) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
(2) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
(3) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
(4) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
9.8.2.2. Height over Stairs
(2) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
(3) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
(4) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
9.8.3.1. Permitted Configurations
(1) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
(2) [F10-OS3.7]
(3) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
(4) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
(5)
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
[F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
9-238 Division B Amended Page National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
9.8.3.2. Minimum Number of Risers
(1) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
9.8.3.3. Maximum Height of Stairs
(1) [F30-OS3.1]
9.8.4.1. Dimensions for Risers
(1) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
9.8.4.2. Dimensions for Rectangular Treads
(1) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
(2) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
9.8.4.3. Dimensions of Tapered Treads
(1) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
(3) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
9.8.4.4. Uniformity and Tolerances for Risers, Runs and Treads
(1) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
(2) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
(3) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
(4) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
(5) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
9.8.4.5. Uniformity of Runs in Flights with Mixed Treads within Dwelling Units
(1) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
(2) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
9.8.4.6. Winders
(1) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
(2) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
9.8.4.7. Spiral Stairs
(1) [F30-OS3.1]
(3) [F30-OS3.1] 9.8.4.8. Tread Nosings
(1) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
(2) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
9.8.5.2. Ramp Width
(1) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
(2) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
9.8.5.3. Clear Height
(1) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
(2) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
9.8.5.4. Ramp Slope
(1) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7] 9.8.5.5. Maximum Rise
(1) [F30-OS3.1]
                                                                                        © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
9.37.1.1.
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.8.6.2. Required Landings
(1) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
9.8.6.3. Dimensions of Landings
(1) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
(2) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
(4) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
(5) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
(6) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
(7) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
9.8.6.4. Clear Height
(1) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
(2) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
9.8.7.1. Required Handrails
(1) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
(2) [F10-OS3.7] [F30-OS3.1]
(5) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7] 9.8.7.2. Continuity of Handrails
(1) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
(2) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
[F73-OA1]
9.8.7.3. Termination of Handrails
(1) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
(2) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
9.8.7.4. Height of Handrails
(2) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7] 9.8.7.5. Ergonomic Design
(1) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
(2) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
9.8.7.6. Projections into Stairs and Ramps (1) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
9.8.7.7. Design and Attachment of Handrails
(1) [F20-OS2.1]
[F20-OS3.1,OS3.7]
(2) [F20-OS2.1]
[F20-OS3.1,OS3.7]
9.8.8.1. Required Guards
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.8.8.2. Loads on Guards
(1) [F20-OS2.1]
9.8.8.3. Height of Guards
(1) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
(2) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
(3) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
(4) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
9.8.8.4. Guards for Floors and Ramps in Garages (1) [F10-OS3.1]
(2) [F20-OS2.1]
9.8.8.5. Openings in Guards
(1) [F30-OS3.1]
(2) [F30-OS3.1]
(3) [F30-OS3.1]
9.8.8.6. Design of Guards to Not Facilitate Climbing (1) [F30-OS3.1]
9.8.8.7. Glass in Guards
(1) [F20-OS3.1,OS3.7] [F20-OS2.1]
9.8.9.1. Loads on Stairs and Ramps
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F22-OH4]
9.8.9.2. Exterior Concrete Stairs
(1) [F22-OS3.1,OS3.7]
9.8.9.3. Exterior Wood Steps
(1) [F80-OS3.1,OS3.7] [F80-OS2.3]
9.8.9.4. Wooden Stair Stringers
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F22-OH4] (2) [F22-OH4]
[F20-OS2.1]
9.8.9.5. Treads
(1) [F22-OH4] [F20-OS2.1]
(2) [F22-OH4] [F20-OS2.1]
9.8.9.6. Finish for Treads and Landings
(1) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7] (2) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7] 9.8.10.1. Design
(1) [F22-OS3.1,OS3.7]
[F20-OS2.1]
(1) [F30-OS3.1]
(3) [F30-OS3.1]
(4) [F30-OS3.1]
(6) [F30-OS3.1]
(7) [F30-OS3.1]
(8) [F30-OS3.1]
[F10-OS3.7] [F10-OS3.7]
[F10-OS3.7] [F10-OS3.7]
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Division B
9-239
                                                                                         © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 9.37.1.1.
Division B
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.8.10.2. Anchorage
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F22-OS3.1,OS3.7]
[F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
9.8.10.3. Prevention of Damage Due to Frost
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.9.4.7. Stairways in 2 Storey, Group D or E Buildings
(1) [F05-OS1.5]
9.9.5.2. Occupancies in Corridors
(1) [F10-OS3.7]
9.9.5.3. Obstructions in Public Corridors
(1) [F30-OS3.1]
9.9.5.4. Obstructions in Exits
(1) [F10-OS3.7]
9.9.5.5. Obstructions in Means of Egress
(1) [F10-OS3.7]
(2) [F10-OS3.7]
9.9.5.6. Mirrors or Draperies (1) [F10-OS3.7] [F30-OS3.1] 9.9.5.7. Fuel-Fired Appliances (1) [F10-OS1.5]
[F10-OS3.7]
9.9.5.8. Service Rooms
(1) [F10-OS3.7] [F30-OS3.1]
9.9.5.9. Ancillary Rooms
(1) [F05,F06-OS1.5] [F10-OS3.7]
9.9.6.1. Obstructions by Doors
(2) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
(3) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
9.9.6.2. Clear Opening Height at Doorways
(1) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
(2) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
9.9.6.3. Clear Opening Width at Doorways
(2) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
(3) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
9.9.6.4. Door Action
(1) [F10-OS3.7]
(2) [F10-OS3.7]
9.9.6.5. Direction of Door Swing
(1) [F10-OS3.7]
(2) [F10-OS3.7]
(3) [F10-OS3.7]
(4) [F10-OS3.7]
9.9.6.6. Nearness of Doors to Stairs
(1) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
(2) [F10-OS3.7]
(1)
9.9.1.3.
(1)
(2) 9.9.2.2. (1)
9.9.2.3. Egress
(1)
9.9.2.4.
(1)
9.9.3.2.
(1)
9.9.3.3.
(1)
9.9.3.4.
(1)
(2) 9.9.4.2. (1)
(2)
(3) (4)
9.9.4.3.
(2)
9.9.4.4. Ramps
(1)
9.9.4.5.
(1)
9.9.4.6.
(1)
[F21-OS3.1]
[F21-OS2.1] [F21-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
Occupant Load
[F10-OS3.7] [F10-OS3.7]
Purpose of Exits
[F10-OS3.7] Applies to “An exit shall be designed for no purpose other than for exiting ...”
Elevators, Slide Escapes and Windows as Means of
[F10-OS3.7]
Principal Entrances
[F10-OS3.7]
Exit Width
[F10-OS3.7]
Width of Corridors
[F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
Clear Height
[F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7] [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
Fire Separations for Exits
[F05-OS1.5] [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2] [F03-OS1.2] [F05-OS1.5] [F03-OP1.2] [F05-OS1.5] [F05-OS1.5] [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
Wired Glass or Glass Block
[F05-OS1.5]
Openings Near Unenclosed Exterior Exit Stairs and
[F05-OS1.5]
Openings in Exterior Walls of Exits
[F05-OS1.5]
Openings Near Exit Doors
[F05-OS1.5]
9-240 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
                                                                                     © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
9.37.1.1.
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.9.6.7. Door Latching, Locking and Opening Mechanisms
(1) (a) [F10-OS3.7]
(b) [F10,F81-OS3.7]
(2) [F10-OS3.7]
(3) [F10-OS3.7]
[F73-OA1]
(4) [F10-OS3.7]
9.9.6.8. Effort Required to Open
(1) [F10-OS3.7]
9.9.7.1. Egress from Roof Area, Podiums, Terraces, Platforms and Contained Open Spaces
(1) [F10-OS3.7]
(2) [F10-OS3.7]
9.9.7.2. Means of Egress from Suites
(1) [F10-OS1.5]
(2) [F10-OS3.7]
(3) [F10-OS1.5] [F10-OS3.7]
9.9.7.3. Dead-End Corridors
(1) [F10-OS3.7]
9.9.7.4. Number and Spacing of Egress Doors
(1) [F10-OS3.7]
(2) [F10-OS1.5]
9.9.7.5. Independent Access to Exit (1) [F10-OS3.7]
9.9.8.2. Number of Required Exits (1) [F10-OS3.7]
9.9.8.3. Contribution of Each Exit (1) [F10-OS3.7]
9.9.8.4. Location of Exits
(1) [F10-OS1.5]
9.9.8.5. Exiting through a Lobby
(1) [F10-OS1.5]
(2) [F10-OS1.5]
(3) [F10-OS1.5]
(4) [F10-OS1.5]
(5) [F05-OS1.5]
(6) [F05-OS1.5]
9.9.8.6. Mezzanine Means of Egress
(1) [F05-OS1.5]
(4) [F05-OS1.5]
9.9.9.1. Travel Limit to Exits or Egress Doors
(1) [F10-OS3.7]
(2) [F10-OS3.7]
(3)
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
[F10-OS3.7]
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Division B
9-241
9.9.9.2. Two Separate Exits
(1) [F10-OS3.7]
9.9.9.3. Shared Egress Facilities
(1) [F10-OS3.7]
(2) [F10-OS3.7]
9.9.10.1. Egress Windows or Doors for Bedrooms (1) [F10-OS3.7]
(2) [F10-OS3.7]
(3) [F10-OS3.7]
(4) [F10-OS3.7]
(5) [F10-OS3.7]
9.9.11.2. Visibility of Exits
(1) [F10-OS3.7]
(2) [F10-OS3.7]
9.9.11.3. Exit Signs
(1) [F10-OS3.7]
(2) [F10-OS3.7]
(3) [F10,F81-OS3.7]
(4) [F10,F81-OS3.7]
(5) [F10-OS3.7]
(6) [F10-OS3.7]
9.9.11.4. Signs for Stairs and Ramps at Exit Level (1) [F10-OS3.7]
9.9.11.5. Floor Numbering
(1) [F10-OS3.7]
[F73-OA1]
9.9.12.2. Required Lighting in Egress Facilities
(1) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
(2) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
9.9.12.3. Emergency Lighting
(1) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
(2) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
(3) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
(4) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
(5) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
(7) [F30-OS3.1] [F10-OS3.7]
9.10.1.2. Testing of Integrated Fire Protection and Life Safety Systems
(1) [F02,F81,F82-OS1.2,OS1.5] [F02,F81,F82-OP1.2]
                                                                                      © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 9.37.1.1.
Division B
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.10.1.3. Items under Part 3 Jurisdiction
(5) [F01-OS1.1] Applies to portion of Code text: “ ... facilities for the dispensing of fuel shall not be installed in any building.”
9.10.3.4. Suspended Membrane Ceilings
(1) [F04-OS1.3] [F04-OP1.3]
9.10.4.3. Basement Storage Garages
(1) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
9.10.5.1. Permitted Openings in Wall and Ceiling Membranes
(1) [F03-OS1.2] [F04-OS1.3] [F03-OP1.2] [F04-OP1.3]
(2) [F04-OS1.3] [F04-OP1.3]
(3) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
(4) [F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] [F04-OP1.3]
9.10.7.1. Protection of Steel Members
(1) [F03-OS1.2] [F04-OS1.3] [F03-OP1.2] [F04-OP1.3]
9.10.8.1. Fire-Resistance Ratings for Floors and Roofs
9.10.8.2. Fire-Resistance Ratings in Sprinklered Buildings
(1) (a),(b) [F02,F82-OS1.3] [F13-OS1.5,OS1.2] (a),(b) [F02,F82-OP1.3] [F13-OP1.2]
9.10.8.3. Fire-Resistance Ratings for Walls, Columns and Arches
(1) [F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] [F04-OP1.2,OP1.3]
(2) [F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] [F04-OP1.2,OP1.3]
9.10.8.4. Support of Noncombustible Construction
(1) [F04-OS1.3] [F04-OP1.3]
9.10.8.7. Roofs Supporting an Occupancy
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.10.8.8. Floors of Exterior Passageways
(1) [F05-OS1.5] [F06-OS1.5,OS1.2] [F04-OP1.3] [F06-OP1.2]
9.10.9.2. Continuous Barrier
(1) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
(2) [F03-OS1.2]
(3) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
(4) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
9.10.9.3. Openings to be Protected with Closures
(1) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
(2) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
9.10.9.4. Floor Assemblies
(1) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
9.10.9.6. Penetration of Fire Separations
(1) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
(2) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
(1)
[F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
9.10.9.7. Combustible Drain, Waste and Vent Piping
(1) [F03-OS1.2] [F04-OS1.3] [F03-OP1.2] [F04-OP1.3]
9.10.9.8. Collapse of Combustible Construction
(1) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
9.10.9.9. Reduction in Thickness of Fire Separation by Beams and Joists
(1) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
9-242
Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
                                               (1)
   [F03-OS1.2] [F04-OS1.2,OS1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “Except as otherwise provided in this Subsection, the fire-resistance ratings of floors and roofs shall conform to Table 9.10.8.1.”
  [F03-OP1.2] [F04-OP1.2,OP1.3] Applies to portion of Code text: “Except as otherwise provided in this Subsection, the fire-resistance ratings of floors and roofs shall conform to Table 9.10.8.1.”
     (3)
   [F03-OP1.2] [F04-OP1.3] Applies to portion of Code
text: “Except as provided in Sentences (4) to (12) and Article 9.10.9.7., pipes, ducts, electrical boxes, totally enclosed raceways or other similar service equipment that partly or wholly penetrate an assembly required to have a fire-resistance rating shall be noncombustible...”
  [F03-OS1.2] [F04-OS1.3] Applies to portion of Code
text: “ Except as provided in Sentences (4) to (12) and Article 9.10.9.7., pipes, ducts, electrical boxes, totally enclosed raceways or other similar service equipment that partly or wholly penetrate an assembly required to have a fire-resistance rating shall be noncombustible..."
                          © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
9.37.1.1.
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.10.9.10. Concealed Spaces above Fire Separations
(1) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
(2) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
9.10.9.11. Separation of Residential Occupancies
(1) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
(2) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
(3) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
9.10.9.12. Residential Suites in Industrial Buildings
(1) [F02-OS1.2]
9.10.9.13. Separation of Suites
(1) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
(2) [F02-OS1.2] [F02-OP1.2]
9.10.9.14. Separation of Residential Suites
(1) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
(3) [F03-OS1.2]
(4) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
9.10.9.15. Separation of Public Corridors
(1) [F05,F03-OS1.5] [F06-OS1.5,OS1.2] [F03,F06-OP1.2]
(2) [F03-OS1.2] [F06,F05-OS1.5] [F03,F06-OP1.2]
(3) [F03-OS1.2] [F06,F05-OS1.5] [F03,F06-OP1.2]
(4) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
9.10.9.16. Separation of Storage Garages
(1) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
(2) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
(4) [F44-OS3.4] [F01-OS1.1]
(5) [F44-OS3.4] [F01-OS1.1]
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.10.9.17. Separation of Repair Garages
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Division B
9-243
(1) (3) (4)
(5)
[F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2] [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2] [F44-OS3.4] [F44-OS1.1] [F44-OH1.1] [F44-OS3.4] [F44-OS1.1] [F44-OH1.1]
9.10.9.18. Exhaust Ducts Serving More Than One Fire Compartment
(1) [F03-OS1.2]
(2) [F03-OS1.2]
9.10.9.19. Central Vacuum Systems
(1) [F03-OS1.2]
9.10.10.3. Separation of Service Rooms (1) [F03-OS1.2] [F03,F81-OS1.4]
[F03-OP1.2] [F03,F81-OP1.4] (3) [F03-OS1.2]
9.10.10.4. Location of Fuel-Fired Appliances
(1) [F03-OS1.2] [F03,F81-OS1.4] [F03-OP1.2] [F03,F81-OP1.4]
9.10.10.5. Incinerators
(1) [F03-OS1.2] [F03,F81-OS1.4] [F03-OP1.2] [F03,F81-OP1.4]
(2) [F01-OS1.1]
(3) [F01-OS1.1]
[F40,F61-OH1.1,OH1.3] [F20-OP2.1] [F80-OP2.3] [F20-OS2.1] [F80-OS2.3] [F01-OP1.1]
(4) [F01,F02-OS1.2]
9.10.10.6. Storage Rooms
(1) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
9.10.11.1. Required Firewalls
(1) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP3.1] [F03-OP1.2]
                                                                                       © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 9.37.1.1.
Division B
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.10.11.2. Firewalls Not Required
(1) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP3.1]
(2) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP3.1]
(3) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP3.1]
(4) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP3.1]
9.10.12.1. Termination of Floors or Mezzanines
(1) [F03-OS1.5] [F03-OP1.2,OP1.4]
9.10.12.2. Location of Skylights
(1) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
9.10.12.3. Exterior Walls Meeting at an Angle
(1) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
(2) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
(3) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
9.10.12.4. Protection of Soffits
(2) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
(3) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
9.10.13.1. Closures
(1) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
9.10.13.2. Solid Core Wood Door as a Closure
(2) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
9.10.13.5. Wired Glass as a Closure
(2) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
(3) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
9.10.13.6. Steel Door Frames
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.10.13.8. Maximum Size of Opening
(1) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2] (2) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
9.10.13.9. Door Latch
(1) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
9.10.13.10. Self-closing Device
(1) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
9.10.13.12. Service Room Doors
(1)
(1)
[F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
9.10.13.13. Fire Dampers
(1) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
9.10.13.14. Fire Stop Flaps
(1) [F03-OS1.3] [F03-OP1.3]
9.10.13.15. Doors between Garages and Dwelling Units
(1) [F44-OS3.4] [F01-OS1.1]
(2) [F44-OS3.4] [F01-OS1.1]
9.10.13.16. Door Stops
(1) [F81-OS1.4] [F81-OP1.4]
9.10.14.3. Limiting Distance and Fire Department Response
(1) [F03-OP3.1]
9.10.14.4. Openings in Exposing Building Face
(1) [F03-OP3.1]
(2) [F03-OP3.1]
(3) [F03-OP3.1]
(4) [F03-OP3.1]
(6) [F03-OP3.1]
(7) [F03-OP3.1]
9.10.14.5. Construction of Exposing Building Face and Walls above Exposing Building Face
(1) [F02,F03-OP3.1]
9-244
Division B
Amended Page
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
[F10-OS1.5] Applies to portion of Code text: “... but shall swing outward from such rooms in all other cases.”
                              [F30-OS3.1] Applies to portion of Code text: “Swing-type doors shall open into service rooms containing fuel-fired equipment where such doors lead to public corridors or rooms used for assembly ...”
                                                        © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
9.37.1.1.
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
(2) [F03-OP3.1]
(3) [F02,F03-OP3.1]
(4) [F03-OP3.1]
(6) [F03-OP3.1]
(7) [F03-OP3.1]
(8) [F02,F03-OP3.1]
(9) [F03-OP3.1]
(10) [F03-OP3.1]
(12) [F03-OP3.1]
(15) [F03-OP3.1]
(16) [F03-OP3.1]
(17) [F03-OP3.1]
9.10.15.3. Limiting Distance and Fire Department Response (1) [F03-OP3.1]
9.10.15.4. Glazed Openings in Exposing Building Face
(1) [F03-OP3.1]
(3) [F03-OP3.1]
(4) [F03-OP3.1]
9.10.15.5. Construction of Exposing Building Face of Houses
(2) [F02,F03-OP3.1]
(3) [F02,F03-OP3.1]
(5) [F03-OP3.1]
(7) [F02,F03-OP3.1]
(8) [F03-OP3.1]
(9) [F03-OP3.1]
(11) [F03-OP3.1]
9.10.16.1. Required Fire Blocks in Concealed Spaces
(1) [F03-OS1.2]
[F03-OP1.2]
(2) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
(3) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
(4) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
(5) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
(6) [F02,F03-OS1.2] [F02,F03-OP1.2]
(7) [F02,F03-OS1.2] [F02,F03-OP1.2]
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.10.16.2. Required Fire Blocks in Wall Assemblies
(1) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
9.10.16.3. Fire Block Materials
(1) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2] (2) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2] (3) [F04-OS1.2] [F04-OP1.2]
9.10.16.4. Penetration of Fire Blocks
(1) [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
9.10.17.1. Flame-Spread Rating of Interior Surfaces
(1) [F02-OS1.2]
9.10.17.2. Ceilings in Exits or Public Corridors
(1) [F05-OS1.5]
9.10.17.3. Walls in Exits
(1) [F05-OS1.5]
(2) [F05-OS1.5]
9.10.17.4. Exterior Exit Passageways
(1) [F05-OS1.5]
9.10.17.5. Walls in Public Corridors
(1) [F05-OS1.5]
9.10.17.9. Combustible Skylights
(1) [F02,F05-OS1.5]
9.10.17.10. Protection of Foamed Plastics (1) [F01,F02,F05-OS1.5]
(2) [F05-OS1.5] [F02-OS1.2]
[F02-OP1.2]
(3) [F01,F02-OS1.2]
9.10.18.1. Access Provided through a Firewall
(1) [F11-OS1.5]
9.10.18.2. Fire Alarm System Required
(1) [F11-OS1.5] [F13-OS1.2,OS1.5] [F03-OS1.2] [F13-OP1.2]
(2) [F11-OS1.5]
9.10.18.4. Rooms and Spaces Requiring Heat Detectors or Smoke Detectors
(1) [F11-OS1.5]
(2) [F11-OS1.5]
(3) [F02-OS1.2] Applies to sprinklered buildings.
[F11-OS1.5] Applies to the supervision of the system and the flow alarm.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Amended Page Division B 9-245
                                                                                      © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 9.37.1.1.
Division B
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.10.18.5. Smoke Detectors in Recirculating Air-Handling Systems
(1) [F03-OS1.2]
9.10.18.6. Portions of Buildings Considered as Separate Buildings
(1) [F03-OS1.2]
(2) [F11-OS1.2]
9.10.18.7. Central Vacuum Systems
(1) [F03-OS1.2]
9.10.19.1. Required Smoke Alarms
(1) [F81,F11-OS1.5]
9.10.19.2. Sound Patterns of Smoke Alarms (1) [F11-OS1.5]
9.10.19.3. Location of Smoke Alarms
(1) [F11-OS1.5]
(2) [F81,F11-OS1.5]
(3) [F11-OS1.5]
9.10.19.4. Power Supply
(1) [F11,F81-OS1.5]
(3) [F11,F81-OS1.5]
9.10.19.5. Interconnection of Smoke Alarms
(1) [F11-OS1.5]
(2) [F11-OS1.5]
9.10.19.6. Silencing of Smoke Alarms
(1) [F11,F81-OS1.5]
9.10.19.7. Instructions for Maintenance and Care (1) [F82-OS1.5]
9.10.19.8. Residential Fire Systems
(1) [F11,F81-OS1.5]
9.10.20.1. Windows or Access Panels Required
(1) [F12-OS1.2,OS1.5]
[F12-OP1.2]
(2) [F12-OS1.5,OS1.2] [F12-OP1.2]
9.10.20.2. Access to Basements
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.10.20.3. Fire Department Access to Buildings
(1) [F12-OS1.2,OS1.5] [F12-OP1.2]
(2) [F12-OS1.2,OS1.5] [F12-OP1.2]
9.10.20.4. Portable Extinguishers
(1) [F81,F02,F12-OS1.2] [F81,F02,F12-OP1.2]
9.10.20.5. Freeze Protection of Fire Protection Systems
(1) [F81,F02-OS1.2] [F81,F02-OP1.2]
9.10.22.1. Installation of Cooktops and Ovens
(1) [F81,F43,F01-OS1.1] [F81,F43-OS3.4]
9.10.22.2. Vertical Clearances above Cooktops
(1) [F01-OS1.1,OS1.2]
(2) [F01-OS1.1,OS1.2]
9.10.22.3. Protection around Cooktops (1) [F01-OS1.1,OS1.2]
(3) [F01-OS1.1,OS1.2]
9.11.1.1. Required Protection
(1) [F56-OH3.1]
(2) [F56-OH3.1]
(3) [F56-OH3.1]
9.11.1.2. Determination of Sound Transmission Ratings
(1) [F56-OH3.1]
(2) [F56-OH3.1]
9.11.1.4. Adjoining Constructions
(2) [F56-OH3.1]
(3) [F56-OH3.1]
(4) [F56-OH3.1]
9.12.1.1. Removal of Topsoil and Organic Matter
(1) [F40,F41,F20-OH1.1]
(2) [F81-OS2.3]
[F81-OP2.3,OP2.4]
[F81-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F81-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F81-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
(1)
[F12-OS1.2,OS1.5] [F12-OP1.2]
9-246
Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
                                                                            (2)
   [F12-OS1.2,OS1.5] Applies to portion of Code text: " Access required in Sentence (1) ... provides an opening not less than 1 100 mm high and 550 mm wide, the sill height of which shall not be more than 900 mm above the floor."
  [F12-OP1.2] Applies to portion of Code text: “Access required in Sentence (1) ... provides an opening not less than 1 100 mm high and 550 mm wide, the sill height of which shall not be more than 900 mm above the floor.”
    © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
9.37.1.1.
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
(3) [F20,F21,F40,F41-OH1.1] [F20,F21-OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OS2.2,OS2.3] [F21-OS2.3] [F20-OP2.2] [F20,F21-OP2.3,OP2.4]
[F20,F21-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F21-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
9.12.1.2. Standing Water
(1) [F60-OS2.2,OS2.3] [F60-OP2.2,OP2.3,OP2.4]
[F60-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F60-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F60-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
9.12.1.3. Protection from Freezing
(1) [F21-OS2.3] [F21-OP2.3,OP2.4]
[F21-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F21-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F21-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
9.12.2.1. Excavation to Undisturbed Soil
(1) [F20-OS2.2,OS2.3] [F20-OP2.2,OP2.3,OP2.4]
[F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
9.12.2.2. Minimum Depth of Foundations
(1) [F21-OS2.3] [F21-OP2.3,OP2.4]
[F21-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F21-OS3.1] Applies to floors, elements that support floors, and concrete steps with more than 2 risers.
[F21-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors. (8) [F21-OS2.3]
[F21-OP2.3,OP2.4] [F21-OS3.1] [F21-OH4]
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.12.3.1. Placement of Backfill
(1) [F81-OS2.1]
[F81-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F81-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors. [F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
9.12.3.2. Grading of Backfill
(1) [F60,F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F60,F61-OS2.3]
[F60,F61-OP2.3]
9.12.3.3. Deleterious Debris and Boulders
(1) [F81-OS2.3] [F81-OP2.3]
[F81-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F81-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors. (2) [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3]
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.3]
[F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F20-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
(3) [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3] [F20-OP2.1,OP2.3]
[F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F20-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
9.12.4.1. Support of Footings
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Division B
9-247
(1)
[F21-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F21-OS2.1]
[F21-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F21-OP2.2]
[F21-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F21-OH2.1] Applies to sewer-line locations beneath footings.
[F21-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
9.13.2.1. Required Dampproofing
(1) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
(2) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
         [F81-OP2.1]
[F22-OP2.4]
[F81-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
                                                                 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 9.37.1.1.
Division B
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.13.2.2. Dampproofing Materials
(1) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
(2) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
9.13.2.3. Preparation of Surface
(1) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
(2) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
(3) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
(4) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
(5) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
(6) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
9.13.2.4. Application of Dampproofing Material
(1) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
(2) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
(3) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
9.13.2.5. Moisture Protection for Interior Finishes
(1) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2] [F61-OS2.3]
(2) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
(3) [F61,F80-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61,F80-OS2.3]
9.13.2.6. Dampproofing of Floors-on-Ground
(1) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
(2) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
9.13.3.1. Required Waterproofing
(1) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
(2) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.13.3.2. Waterproofing Materials
(1) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
(2) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
9.13.3.3. Preparation of Surface
(1) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
(2) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
(3) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
(4) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
(5) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
9.13.3.4. Application of Waterproofing Membranes
(1) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
(2) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
(3) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
(4) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
9.13.3.5. Floor Waterproofing System
(1) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
9.13.4.2. Protection from Soil Gas Ingress
(1) [F40-OH1.1]
(2) [F40-OH1.1]
(3) [F40-OH1.1]
9.13.4.3. Providing for the Rough-in for a Subfloor Depressurization System
(1) [F40-OH1.1]
(2) [F40-OH1.1]
(3) [F40-OH1.1]
9.14.2.1. Foundation Wall Drainage (1) [F60-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F60-OS2.1,OS2.2,OS2.3] [F60-OP2.1,OP2.2,OP2.3]
9-248 Division B Amended Page
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
                                                                                      © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
9.37.1.1.
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
(2) (a) [F60-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies where foundations serve as or support an environmental separator.
(a) [F60-OS2.1]
(a) [F60-OS2.3] Applies where foundations serve as or support an environmental separator.
(b) [F21-OS2.1]
(b) [F21-OS2.3] Applies where foundations serve as or support an environmental separator.
(b) [F21-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies where foundations serve as or support an environmental separator.
(b) [F21-OH4] Applies where foundations support floors or elements supporting floors.
9.14.3.1. Material Standards
(1) [F60-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F60-OS2.1,OS2.3] [F60-OP2.1,OP2.3]
9.14.3.2. Minimum Size
(1) [F60-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F60-OS2.1,OS2.2,OS2.3] [F60-OP2.1,OP2.2,OP2.3]
9.14.3.3. Installation
(1) [F60-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F60-OS2.1,OS2.2,OS2.3] [F60-OP2.1,OP2.2,OP2.3]
(2) [F60-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F60-OS2.1,OS2.2,OS2.3] [F60-OP2.1,OP2.2,OP2.3]
(3) [F60-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F60-OS2.1,OS2.2,OS2.3] [F60-OP2.1,OP2.2,OP2.3]
(4) [F60-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F60-OS2.1,OS2.2,OS2.3] [F60-OP2.1,OP2.2,OP2.3]
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.14.4.1. Type of Granular Material
(1) (a) [F60-OS2.3] [F21-OS2.2] (a) [F60-OP2.3] [F21-OP2.6]
(a) [F60-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
(b) [F21-OS2.1]
(b) [F21-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
(b) [F21-OP2.1,OP2.4]
(b) [F21-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
(b) [F21-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
(b) [F21-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
(b) [F21-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
9.14.4.2. Installation
(1) [F60-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F60-OS2.1,OS2.2,OS2.3] [F60-OP2.1,OP2.2,OP2.3]
9.14.4.3. Grading
(1) [F60-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F60-OS2.1,OS2.2,OS2.3] [F60-OP2.1,OP2.2,OP2.3]
9.14.4.4. Wet Site Conditions
(1) [F60-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F60-OS2.1,OS2.2,OS2.3] [F60-OP2.1,OP2.2,OP2.3]
9.14.5.1. Drainage Disposal
(1) [F60-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F60-OS2.1,OS2.2,OS2.3] [F60-OP2.1,OP2.2,OP2.3]
9.14.5.2. Sump Pits
(1) (a),(b) [F60,F61-OH1.1,OH1.3] (c) [F40-OH1.1] [F52-OH1.2]
(a),(b) [F60,F61-OS2.1,OS2.3] (c) [F52-OS2.3]
(a),(b) [F60,F61-OP2.3,OP2.4] (c) [F52-OP2.3]
(c) [F30-OS3.1]
(2) (a) [F30-OS3.1] (b) [F40-OH1.1]
(3) [F60-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F60-OS2.1,OS2.2,OS2.3] [F60-OP2.1,OP2.2,OP2.3]
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Division B
9-249
               (b) [F21-OP2.1]
(b) [F21-OP2.3] Applies where foundations serve as or support an environmental separator.
(b) [F21-OP2.4] Applies where foundations support walls or floors.
        (b) [F21-OS3.1] Applies where foundations support floors or elements supporting floors.
(b) [F21-OS3.7] Applies where foundations support walls that contain windows or doors required for emergency egress.
                                                  © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 9.37.1.1.
Division B
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.14.5.3. Dry Wells
(1) [F60-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F60-OS2.1,OS2.2,OS2.3] [F60-OP2.1,OP2.2,OP2.3]
(2) [F60-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F60-OS2.1,OS2.2,OS2.3] [F60-OP2.1,OP2.2,OP2.3]
9.14.6.1. Surface Drainage
(1) [F60-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F60-OS2.1,OS2.2,OS2.3] [F60-OP2.1,OP2.2,OP2.3]
9.14.6.2. Drainage away from Wells or Septic Disposal Beds
9.14.6.3. Window Wells
(1) [F60-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F60-OS2.1,OS2.3] [F60-OP2.1,OP2.3]
9.14.6.4. Catch Basin
(1) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
[F61-OP2.3]
[F61-OS3.1]
9.15.1.3. Foundations for Deformation-Resistant Buildings
(1) [F20-OS2.2]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors. [F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.15.2.2. Unit Masonry Construction
(1) [F20-OS2.1]
[F20,F21,F61-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F21,F61-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F21,F61-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F21,F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
(3) (a) [F20-OS2.1]
(a) [F20,F80-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
(a) [F20,F80-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
(a) [F20,F80-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
(a) [F20,F80-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
(b) [F20-OS2.1]
(b) [F20,F80-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
(b) [F20,F80-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
(b) [F20,F80-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
(b) [F20,F80-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
(c) [F20-OS2.1]
(c) [F20,F61-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
(c) [F20,F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
(c) [F20,F61-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
(c) [F20,F61-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
9-250 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
                    [F20-OP2.1]
[F21,F61-OP2.4]
[F20,F21,F61-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
      (1)
 [F46-OH2.2] Applies to directing drainage away from the location of a water supply.
[F44-OH2.1] Applies to directing drainage away from a septic tank disposal system.
     (a) [F20-OP2.1]
(a) [F80-OP2.4]
(a) [F20,F80-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
                  (b) [F20-OP2.1]
(b) [F80-OP2.4]
(b) [F20,F80-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
     [F20-OP2.2]
[F22-OP2.4]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
          (c) [F20-OP2.1]
(c) [F61-OP2.4]
(c) [F20,F61-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
      © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
9.37.1.1.
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.15.2.3. Pier-Type Foundations
(1) [F20-OS2.1,OS2.2]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
(2) [F20-OS2.1,OS2.2]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
(4)
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
(3)
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
9.15.3.1. Footings Required
(1) [F20-OS2.2]
[F20,F21-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F21-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F21-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F21-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
9.15.3.2. Support of Footings
(1) [F21-OS2.4]
[F21-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F21-OP2.4]
[F21-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F21-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F21-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors. [F21-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-251
9.15.2.4. Wood-Frame Foundations
(1)
(a) [F20-OS2.1,OS2.2]
(a) [F20,F80-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
(a) [F20-OP2.1,OP2.2]
(a) [F20,F80-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
(a) [F20,F80-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
(a) [F20,F80-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
(a) [F20,F80-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
      [F20-OS2.1,OS2.4]
[F22-OS2.4,OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.4]
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
      [F20-OP2.1,OP2.2]
[F22-OP2.4]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
            [F20-OP2.1,OP2.2]
[F22-OP2.4]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
           [F20-OS2.1,OS2.4]
[F22-OS2.4,OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
       [F20-OP2.2]
[F20,F21-OP2.4]
[F20,F21-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
              © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 9.37.1.1.
Division B
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
(2) [F21-OS2.1]
[F21-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F21-OP2.1,OP2.4]
[F21-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F21-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F21-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F21-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
9.15.3.4. Basic Footing Widths and Areas
(1) [F20-OS2.2]
[F20,F21-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F21-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F21-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F21-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
(2) [F20-OS2.2]
[F20,F21-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F21-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F21-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F21-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
(3) [F20-OS2.2]
[F20,F21-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F21-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F21-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F21-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.15.3.5. Adjustments to Footing Widths for Exterior Walls
(1) [F20-OS2.2,OS2.3] [F21-OS2.3]
[F20-OP2.2,OP2.3] [F21-OP2.3,OP2.4]
[F20,F21-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F20,F21-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F21-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
9.15.3.6. Adjustments to Footing Widths for Interior Walls
(1) [F20-OS2.2]
[F20,F21-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F21-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F21-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F21-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
(2) [F20-OS2.2] [F20-OP2.2]
9.15.3.7. Adjustments to Footing Area for Columns
(1) [F20-OS2.2]
[F20,F21-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F21-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F21-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F21-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
9.15.3.8. Footing Thickness
(1) [F20-OS2.1]
[F20-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.4]
[F20-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors. [F20-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
9-252 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
                    [F20-OP2.2]
[F21-OP2.4]
[F20,F21-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
     [F20-OP2.1]
[F21-OP2.4]
[F20,F21-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
              [F20-OP2.2]
[F21-OP2.4]
[F20,F21-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
     [F20-OP2.2]
[F21-OP2.4]
[F20,F21-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
           [F20-OP2.2]
[F21-OP2.4]
[F20,F21-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
           © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
9.37.1.1.
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.15.3.9. Step Footings
(1) [F20,F22-OS2.3,OS2.4] [F20,F22-OP2.3,OP2.4]
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies where the foundation supports or is part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22-OH4] Applies to foundations that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS3.1] Applies to foundations that support floors.
9.15.4.1. Permanent Form Material
(1) [F22,F63,F55-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
9.15.4.2. Foundation Wall Thickness and Required Lateral Support
(1) [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3] [F22-OS2.3]
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.3] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.4]
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F20,F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
(2) [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3] [F22-OS2.3]
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.3] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.4]
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F20,F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
(3) [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.4]
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.3] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.4]
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F20,F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
(4) [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3] [F22-OS2.3]
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.3] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.4]
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F20,F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
(5) [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.4]
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.3] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.4]
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F20,F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
(6)
(7)
(8)
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
[F20-OS2.1,OS2.3] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.4]
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.3] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.4]
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F20,F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20-OS2.1,OS2.3] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.4]
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.3] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.4]
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F20,F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20-OS2.1,OS2.3] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.4]
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.3] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.4]
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F20,F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-253
9.15.4.5. Reinforcement for Flat Insulating Concrete Form Foundation Walls
(1) [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.4]
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.3] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.4]
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F20,F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
(2) [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.4]
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.3] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.4]
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F20,F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
(3) [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.4]
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.3] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.4]
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F20,F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
                                                                     © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 9.37.1.1.
Division B
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
(4) [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.4]
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.3] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.4]
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F20,F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
9.15.4.6. Extension above Ground Level
(1) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
[F61-OP2.3]
9.15.4.7. Reduction in Thickness
(1) [F20-OS2.1]
[F20-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.4]
[F20-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
(2) [F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OS2.1]
[F20-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.4]
[F20-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
(3) [F20-OS2.1]
[F20-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.4]
[F20-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
9.15.4.9. Crack Control Joints
(1) [F21-OS2.3] [F21-OP2.3]
[F21-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
(2)
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
[F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OS2.1]
[F20,F61-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OP2.1]
[F20,F61-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
9-254 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
9.15.5.1. Support of Floor Joists
(1) [F20-OS2.1]
[F40,F61-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.4]
[F20-OP2.3] [F40,F61-OP2.3,OP2.4] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F40,F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F40,F61-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F40,F61-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
9.15.5.2. Support of Beams
(1) [F20-OS2.1]
[F20-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.4]
[F20-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
(2) [F80-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F80-OP2.3,OP2.4] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F80-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F80-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F80-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
9.15.5.3. Pilasters
(1) [F20-OS2.1]
[F20-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.4]
[F20-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors. [F20-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
                                                           © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
9.37.1.1.
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
(2) [F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OS2.1]
[F20-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.4]
[F20-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
(3) [F20-OS2.1]
[F20-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.4]
[F20-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
9.15.6.2. Foundation Walls above Ground
(1) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
[F61-OP2.3]
9.15.6.3. Form Ties
(1) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F30-OS3.1]
[F61-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F61-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
9.16.1.3. Required Floors-on-Ground
(1) (a),(b) [F30-OS3.1] (a),(b) [F40-OH2.4]
9.16.2.1. Required Installation of Granular Material
(1) [F40,F61-OH1.1] [F60,F61-OH1.2,OH1.3] [F60-OS2.3]
9.16.2.2. Support of Floors
(1) [F21-OS2.1,OS2.3] [F21-OP2.1,OP2.3,OP2.4]
[F21-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F21-OS3.1]
(2) [F21-OS2.1,OS2.3]
[F21-OP2.1,OP2.3,OP2.4] [F21-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F21-OS3.1]
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
(3) [F22-OS3.1]
9.16.3.1. Control of Water Ingress
(1) [F60-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F60-OS2.3]
[F60-OS3.1]
9.16.3.2. Hydrostatic Pressure
(1) [F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F20-OS2.1] [F61-OS2.3] [F20-OP2.1] [F61-OP2.3]
[F20-OS3.1]
9.16.3.3. Floor Drains
(1) [F62-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F62-OS2.3]
[F62-OS3.1]
9.16.4.1. Surface Finish
(1) [F40-OH2.4] [F30,F80-OS3.1]
[F62-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
(2) [F41-OH1.1]
[F20,F80-OS3.1]
9.16.4.2. Topping Course
(1) [F20,F80-OS3.1]
(2) [F20,F80-OS3.1]
9.16.4.3. Thickness
(1) [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3]
[F20-OS3.1] [F20-OP2.1,OP2.3] [F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F20-OH4]
9.16.4.4. Bond Break
(1) [F21-OS3.1]
9.16.5.1. Wood-Frame Floors
(1) [F20-OS2.1]
[F20-OS2.3] Applies where wood-frame floors-on-ground serve as an environmental separator.
[F20-OS3.1]
[F20-OP2.1]
[F20-OP2.3] Applies where wood-frame floors-on-ground serve as an environmental separator.
[F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies where wood-frame floors-on-ground serve as an environmental separator.
[F20-OH4]
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Division B
9-255
                                                                           © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 9.37.1.1.
Division B
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.17.2.1. Location
(1) [F20-OS2.2]
[F20-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OP2.2,OP2.4]
[F20-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
9.17.2.2. Lateral Support
(1) [F22-OS2.4,OS2.5]
[F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors. [F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
(2) [F22-OS2.4,OS2.5]
[F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors. [F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
9.17.3.1. Size and Thickness
(1) [F20-OS2.1]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
(2)
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
[F20-OS2.1]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
9-256 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
9.17.3.2. End Bearing Plates
(1)
[F20-OS2.1]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
9.17.3.3. Paint
(1) [F80-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors. [F80-OS2.3]
[F80-OP2.3,OP2.4]
[F80-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F80-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
9.17.3.4. Design of Steel Columns
(1)
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
         [F20-OP2.1]
[F20,F22-OP2.4]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
               [F20-OP2.1]
[F20,F22-OP2.4]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
                      [F20-OS2.1]
[F22-OS2.4]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1]
[F22-OP2.4]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
        [F20-OP2.1]
[F20,F22-OP2.4]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
       [F20,F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
   © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
9.37.1.1.
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.17.4.1. Column Sizes
(1) [F20-OS2.1]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
(2) [F20-OS2.1]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
9.17.4.2. Materials
(1) [F20-OS2.1]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
(2)
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
[F20-OS2.1]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-257
9.17.4.3. Columns in Contact with Concrete
(1) [F80-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F80-OP2.4]
[F80-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F80-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F80-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F80-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
9.17.5.1. Materials
(1) [F20-OS2.1]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
9.17.5.2. Sizes
(1)
[F20-OS2.1]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
        [F20-OP2.1]
[F20,F22-OP2.4]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
      [F20-OP2.1]
[F20,F22-OP2.4]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
             [F20-OP2.1]
[F20,F22-OP2.4]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
             [F20-OP2.1]
[F20,F22-OP2.4]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
      [F20-OP2.1]
[F20,F22-OP2.4]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
           [F20-OP2.1]
[F20,F22-OP2.4]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
     © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 9.37.1.1.
Division B
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.17.6.2. Sizes
(1) [F20-OS2.1]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
9.18.2.1. Access Openings
(1) [F82-OH1.1,OH1.2] (2)
[F42-OH2.4,OH2.5] Applies where crawl spaces are heated or unheated and access is from the exterior.
9.18.3.1. Ventilation of Unheated Crawl Spaces
(1) [F62-OH1.1] [F62-OS2.3]
(2) [F62-OH1.1] [F62-OS2.3]
(3) (a) [F62-OH1.1,OH1.2]
(b) [F61,F42-OH1.1,OH1.2]
(a),(b) [F61,F62,F42-OS2.3]
(b) [F42-OH2.3,OH2.5]
9.18.4.1. Access Way to Services
(1) [F82-OH1.1,OH1.2] [F82-OH2.1]
9.18.5.1. Drainage
(1) [F60-OH1.1,OH1.2] [F60-OS2.3]
9.18.6.1. Ground Cover in Unheated Crawl Spaces
(1) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2] [F61-OS2.3]
(2) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2] [F61-OS2.3]
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.18.6.2. Ground Cover in Heated Crawl Spaces
(1) [F40,F61-OH1.1] [F61-OH1.2] [F61-OS2.3]
(2) [F40,F61-OH1.1] [F61-OH1.2] [F61-OS2.3]
(3) [F40-OH1.1]
(4) [F40,F61-OH1.1,OH1.2]
[F61-OS2.3]
9.18.7.1. Crawl Spaces as Warm Air Plenums
(1) [F51-OH1.1,OH1.2] [F51-OS2.3]
(2) [F02-OS1.2]
(3) [F01-OS1.1]
(4) (a),(b) [F01-OS1.1]
9.19.1.1. Required Venting
(1) [F51,F62-OH1.1,OH1.2]
[F51-OH1.3] Applies to sloped roof assemblies that may be subject to ice damming.
[F62,F51-OS2.3]
9.19.1.2. Vent Requirements
(1) [F51,F62-OH1.1,OH1.2]
[F51-OH1.3] Applies to sloped roof assemblies that may be subject to ice damming.
[F62,F51-OS2.3]
(2) [F51,F62-OH1.1,OH1.2]
[F51-OH1.3] Applies to sloped roof assemblies that may be subject to ice damming.
[F62,F51-OS2.3]
(3) [F51,F62-OH1.1,OH1.2]
[F51-OH1.3] Applies to sloped roof assemblies that may be subject to ice damming.
[F62,F51-OS2.3]
(4) [F51,F62-OH1.1,OH1.2]
[F51-OH1.3] Applies to sloped roof assemblies that may be subject to ice damming.
[F62,F51-OS2.3]
(5) [F42,F51,F61,F62-OS2.3]
[F42-OH1.1] Applies to resistance to the entry of insects. [F51,F61,F62-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F42-OH2.5] Applies to resistance to the entry of insects.
9.19.1.3. Clearances
(1) [F62,F51-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F62,F51-OS2.3]
(2) [F62,F51-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F62,F51-OS2.3]
9-258 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
            [F20-OP2.1]
[F20,F22-OP2.4]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
                  [F51,F63-OS2.3] Applies where crawl spaces are unheated and access is from the interior.
[F42,F61-OS2.3] Applies where crawl spaces are heated or unheated and access is from the exterior.
   [F63-OS2.3] Applies where crawl spaces are unheated and access is from the interior.
[F42,F61-OS2.3] Applies where crawl spaces are heated or unheated and access is from the exterior.
                                           © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
9.37.1.1.
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
(3) [F51,F62-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F51,F62-OS2.3]
9.19.2.1. Access
(1) [F82-OS2.3] [F82-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
(2) [F82-OH1.1,OH1.2] [F82-OS2.3]
(3)
9.20.2.1. Masonry Unit Standards
(1) [F20,F80-OS2.1]
[F20,F80-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator or are exposed to moisture.
[F20,F80-OP2.1,OP2.4]
[F20,F80-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator or are exposed to moisture.
[F20,F80-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator and to masonry used in chimneys and fireplaces.
[F20,F80-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.20.2.2. Used Brick
(1) [F20,F80-OS2.1]
[F20,F80-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator or are exposed to moisture.
[F20,F80-OP2.1,OP2.4]
[F20,F80-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator or are exposed to moisture.
[F20,F80-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator and to masonry used in chimneys and fireplaces.
[F20,F80-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
9.20.2.3. Glass Blocks
(1) [F20-OS2.1]
[F20-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator or are exposed to moisture.
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.4]
[F20-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator or are exposed to moisture.
[F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator and to masonry used in chimneys and fireplaces.
[F20-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors. [F01,F20-OS3.4] Applies to masonry used in chimneys and fireplaces.
[F01,F20-OS1.1] [F20-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F01,F20-OP1.1] [F20-OP1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F61,F42-OS2.3] Applies where access is from the exterior or an unheated enclosed space.
[F42-OH2.5] Applies where access is from the exterior or an unheated enclosed space.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-259
                [F42-OH1.1] [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies where access is from the exterior.
[F42-OH1.1] Applies where access is from an unheated enclosed space.
[F51-OH1.2] Applies where access is from an interior heated space.
     [F20,F80-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F01-OS1.1,OS1.2] Applies to masonry used in chimneys and fireplaces.
   [F20,F80-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F80-OS3.4] Applies to masonry used in chimneys and fireplaces.
        [F20,F80-OP1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F01-OP1.2] Applies to masonry used in chimneys and fireplaces.
         [F20,F80-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F80-OS3.4] Applies to masonry used in chimneys and fireplaces.
   [F20,F80-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F01-OS1.1,OS1.2] Applies to masonry used in chimneys and fireplaces.
          [F20,F80-OP1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F01,F20,F80-OP1.2] Applies to masonry used in chimneys and fireplaces.
    © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 9.37.1.1.
Division B
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.20.2.4. Cellular Concrete
(1) [F80-OS2.1]
[F80-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator or are exposed to moisture.
[F80-OP2.1,OP2.4]
[F80-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator or are exposed to moisture.
[F80-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator and to masonry used in chimneys and fireplaces.
[F80-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F80-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors. [F80-OS3.4] Applies to masonry used in chimneys and fireplaces.
[F80-OP1.2] Applies to masonry used in chimneys and fireplaces.
[F80-OS1.2] Applies to masonry used in chimneys and fireplaces.
9.20.2.5. Stone
(1) [F20,F80-OS2.1]
[F20,F80-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator or are exposed to moisture.
[F20,F80-OP2.1,OP2.4]
[F20,F80-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator or are exposed to moisture.
[F20,F80-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator and to masonry used in chimneys and fireplaces.
[F20,F80-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
9.20.2.6. Concrete Blocks Exposed to the Weather
(1) [F80-OS2.1,OS2.3] [F61-OS2.3]
[F80-OP2.1,OP2.3] [F61-OP2.3] [F61,F80-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F80-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F80-OS3.1] Applies to elements that support floors. [F80-OS3.4] Applies to masonry used in chimneys and fireplaces.
[F80-OP1.2] Applies to concrete blocks in chimneys and fireplaces.
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.20.2.7. Compressive Strength
(1) [F20,F80-OS2.1]
[F20,F80-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator or are exposed to moisture.
[F20,F80-OP2.1,OP2.4]
[F20,F80-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator or are exposed to moisture.
[F20,F80-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator and to masonry used in chimneys and fireplaces.
[F20,F80-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
9.20.3.1. Mortar Materials
(1) [F20,F80-OS2.1]
[F20,F80-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F80-OP2.1,OP2.4]
[F20,F80-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F80-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator and to masonry used in chimneys and fireplaces.
[F20,F80-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F80-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F80-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
(2) [F20-OS2.1]
[F20-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator or are exposed to moisture.
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.4]
[F20-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator or are exposed to moisture.
[F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F20-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors. [F20-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
9-260 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
              [F20,F80-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F01-OS1.1,OS1.2] Applies to masonry used in chimneys and fireplaces.
       [F20,F80-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F80-OS3.4] Applies to masonry used in chimneys and fireplaces.
   [F20,F80-OP1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F01,F20,F80-OP1.2] Applies to masonry used in chimneys and fireplaces.
              [F20,F80-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F01-OS1.1,OS1.2] Applies to masonry used in chimneys and fireplaces.
       [F20,F80-OP1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F01,F20,F80-OP1.2] Applies to masonry used in chimneys and fireplaces.
                 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
9.37.1.1.
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
(3) [F21-OS2.1]
[F21-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator or are exposed to moisture.
[F21-OP2.1,OP2.4]
[F21-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator or are exposed to moisture.
[F21-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator and to masonry used in chimneys and fireplaces.
[F21-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F21-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F21-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
(4) [F21-OS2.1]
[F21-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator or are exposed to moisture.
[F21-OP2.1,OP2.4]
[F21-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator or are exposed to moisture.
[F21-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator and to masonry used in chimneys and fireplaces.
[F21-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F21-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F21-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
9.20.3.2. Mortar and Grout Mixes
(1) [F20,F21,F61-OS2.1]
[F20,F21,F61-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F21,F61-OP2.1,OP2.4]
[F20,F21,F61-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F21,F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator and to masonry used in chimneys and fireplaces.
[F20,F21,F61-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F21,F61-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F21-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
(2) (a) [F21,F61,F55-OS2.1,OS2.3]
(a) [F21,F61,F55-OP2.1,OP2.3]
(a) [F21,F61,F55-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
(b) [F21-OS2.1]
(b) [F21-OP2.1]
(b) [F21,F44-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
(3)
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
[F20,F21,F61-OS2.1]
[F20,F21,F61-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F21,F61-OP2.1,OP2.4]
[F20,F21,F61-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F21,F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator and to masonry used in chimneys and fireplaces.
[F20,F21,F61-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F21,F61-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F21-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F20,F21-OS2.1]
[F20,F21-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F21-OP2.1,OP2.4]
[F20,F21-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F21-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator and to masonry used in chimneys and fireplaces.
[F20,F21-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F21-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F21-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F20-OS2.1]
[F20-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.4]
[F20-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator and to masonry used in chimneys and fireplaces.
[F20-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors. [F20-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Division B
9-261
(4)
(5)
                                               © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 9.37.1.1.
Division B
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
(6) [F20-OS2.1]
[F20-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.4]
[F20-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator and to masonry used in chimneys and fireplaces.
[F20-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors. [F20-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
(7) [F20,F21,F61-OS2.1]
[F20,F21,F61-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F21,F61-OP2.1,OP2.4]
[F20,F21,F61-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F21,F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator and to masonry used in chimneys and fireplaces.
[F20,F21,F61-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F21,F61-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F21,F61-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
9.20.4.1. Thickness
(1) [F20,F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F61-OS2.1]
[F20,F61-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator or are exposed to moisture.
[F20,F61-OP2.1,OP2.4]
[F20,F61-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator or are exposed to moisture.
[F20,F61-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F20,F61-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F61-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
(2)
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
[F20,F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F61-OS2.1]
[F20,F61-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator or are exposed to moisture.
[F20,F61-OP2.1,OP2.4]
[F20,F61-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator or are exposed to moisture.
[F20,F61-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F20,F61-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F61-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
9-262 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
9.20.4.2. Masonry Units
(1)
[F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator and to masonry used in chimneys and fireplaces.
[F20-OS2.1]
[F20-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator or are exposed to moisture.
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.4]
[F20-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator or are exposed to moisture.
[F20-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F20-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors. [F20-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20-OS2.1]
[F20-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.4]
[F20-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator and to masonry used in chimneys and fireplaces.
[F20-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors. [F20-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
(2)
                                          © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
9.37.1.1.
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
(3) [F20-OS2.1]
[F20-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator or are exposed to moisture.
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.4]
[F20-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator or are exposed to moisture.
[F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator and to masonry used in chimneys and fireplaces.
[F20-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors. [F20-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
9.20.5.1. Masonry Support
(1) [F20,F21-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F21-OS2.1]
[F20,F21-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator or are exposed to moisture.
[F20,F21-OP2.1,OP2.4]
[F20,F21-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator or are exposed to moisture.
[F20,F21-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F20,F21-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F21-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
(2) [F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OS2.1]
[F20-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator or are exposed to moisture.
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.4]
[F20-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator or are exposed to moisture.
[F20-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F20-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors. [F20-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.20.5.2. Lintels or Arches
(1) [F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22-OS2.1]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator or are exposed to moisture.
[F20,F22-OP2.1,OP2.4]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator or are exposed to moisture.
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F20,F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
(2) [F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22-OS2.1]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22-OP2.1,OP2.4]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator or are exposed to moisture.
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
(4) [F80-OS2.1]
[F80-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator or are exposed to moisture.
[F80-OP2.1,OP2.4]
[F80-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator or are exposed to moisture.
[F80-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F80-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F80-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F80-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors. [F80-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Amended Page Division B 9-263
                                        © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 9.37.1.1.
Division B
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.20.6.1. Thickness of Exterior Walls
(1) [F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
(2) [F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
(3) [F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F20,F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.20.6.2. Cavity Walls
9-264 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
(1)
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F20,F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22,F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F61-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
(2)
(3)
9.20.6.3. Thickness of Interior Walls
(2) (b) [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3,OS2.5] [F22-OS2.5] (b) [F20-OP2.1,OP2.3,OP2.5] [F22-OP2.5]
          [F20-OS2.1,OS2.5]
[F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
    [F20-OS2.1,OS2.5]
[F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator or are exposed to moisture.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator or are exposed to moisture.
           [F20-OS2.1,OS2.5]
[F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
      [F20-OS2.1,OS2.5]
[F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22,F61-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22,F61-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
           [F20-OS2.1,OS2.5]
[F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
        [F20-OS2.1,OS2.5]
[F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator or are exposed to moisture.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
          © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
9.37.1.1.
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.20.6.4. Masonry Veneer
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.20.7.2. Minimum Wall Thickness
(1)
(1)
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F20,F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
(2) [F61-OS2.3] [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F61-OP2.3]
[F61-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
(3) [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3,OS2.5] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.5]
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.3,OP2.5] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
9.20.6.5. Parapet Walls
(1) [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3,OS2.5] [F22-OS2.5] [F20-OP2.1,OP2.3,OP2.5] [F22-OP2.5] [F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
(2) [F61-OS2.3] [F61-OP2.3]
[F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F61-OS1.2]
9.20.7.1. Maximum Dimensions
(1)
(2)
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F20,F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F20,F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-265
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F20,F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
9.20.7.3. Separation of Chases or Recesses
(1)
       [F20-OS2.1,OS2.5]
[F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that are part of an environmental separator.
    [F20-OS2.1,OS2.5]
[F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
              [F20-OS2.1,OS2.5]
[F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
                     [F20-OS2.1,OS2.5]
[F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
     [F20-OS2.1,OS2.5]
[F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
           © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 9.37.1.1.
Division B
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.20.7.4. Non-Conforming Chases or Recesses
(1) [F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
9.20.7.5. Chases or Recesses Cut into Walls
(1) [F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OS2.1]
[F20-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.4]
[F20-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F20-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
9.20.8.1. Capping of Hollow Masonry Walls
(1) [F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OS2.1]
[F20-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.4]
[F20-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F20-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors. [F20-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
(2) [F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OS2.1]
[F20-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.4]
[F20-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F20-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
9.20.8.2. Cavity Walls Supporting Framing Members
(1) [F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OS2.1]
[F20-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.4]
[F20-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F20-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors. (2) [F80-OS2.3]
[F80-OP2.3]
(3) [F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OS2.1]
[F20-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.4]
[F20-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F20-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
9.20.8.3. Bearing of Beams and Joists
(1) [F20-OS2.1]
[F20-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OP2.1]
[F20-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
9-266 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
         [F20-OS2.1,OS2.5]
[F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
                                           © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
9.37.1.1.
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
(2) [F20-OS2.1]
[F20-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OP2.1]
[F20-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
(3) [F20-OS2.1]
[F20-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OP2.1]
[F20-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
9.20.8.4. Support of Beams and Columns
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
(3) [F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F20,F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
(4) [F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F20,F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
(5) [F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F20,F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
(1)
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F20,F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
(2) [F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OS2.1]
[F20-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.4]
[F20-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F20-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors. [F20-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-267
       [F20-OS2.1,OS2.5]
[F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
           [F20-OS2.1,OS2.5]
[F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
        [F20-OS2.1,OS2.5]
[F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
              [F20-OS2.1,OS2.5]
[F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
          © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 9.37.1.1.
Division B
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.20.8.5. Projection of Masonry Veneer Beyond Supporting Members
(1) [F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
9.20.9.1. Joints to be Offset or Reinforced
(1) [F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OS2.1]
[F20-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.4]
[F20-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F20-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
(2) [F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OS2.1]
[F20-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.4]
[F20-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F20-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors. [F20-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.20.9.2. Bonding or Tying of Other than Masonry Veneer
9-268 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
(1)
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
9.20.9.3. Bonding
(1)
[F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OS2.1]
[F20-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.4]
[F20-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F20-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OS2.1]
[F20-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.4]
[F20-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F20-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors. [F20-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
(2)
       [F20-OS2.1,OS2.5]
[F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
      [F20-OS2.1,OS2.5]
[F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
        [F20,F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
                             © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
9.37.1.1.
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
(3) [F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OS2.1]
[F20-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.4]
[F20-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F20-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
9.20.9.4. Tying
(2) [F20,F80-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F80-OS2.1]
[F20,F80-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F80-OP2.1,OP2.4]
[F20,F80-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F80-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F20,F80-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
(3) [F20,F80-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F80-OS2.1]
[F20,F80-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F80-OP2.1,OP2.4]
[F20,F80-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F80-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F20,F80-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
(4)
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
[F20,F80-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F80-OS2.1]
[F20,F80-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F80-OP2.1,OP2.4]
[F20,F80-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F80-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F20,F80-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OS2.1]
[F20-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.4]
[F20-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F20-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OS2.1]
[F20-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.4]
[F20-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F20-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors. [F20-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-269
(5)
(6)
                 [F20,F80-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F80-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
              [F20,F80-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F80-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
                 [F20,F80-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F80-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
  © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 9.37.1.1.
Division B
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
(7) [F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OS2.1]
[F20-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.4]
[F20-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F20-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
(8) [F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OS2.1]
[F20-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F20-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.4]
[F20-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
(9) [F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OS2.1]
[F20-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.4]
[F20-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F20-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
9.20.9.5. Ties for Masonry Veneer
(2)
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
[F20,F80-OS2.1]
[F20,F80-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F80-OP2.1]
[F20,F80-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F80-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F80-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
(1)
[F20,F22,F80-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22,F80-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
9.20.9.6. Reinforcing for Glass Block
(1) [F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OS2.1]
[F20-OS2.3] Applies to elements that are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OP2.1]
[F20-OP2.3] Applies to elements that are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
(2) [F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OS2.1]
[F20-OS2.3] Applies to elements that are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OP2.1]
[F20-OP2.3] Applies to elements that are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
9.20.10.1. Lateral Support Required
(1) [F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F20,F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
9-270
Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
                                     [F20-OS2.1]
[F20,F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1]
[F20,F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
          [F20,F80-OS2.1]
[F20,F22,F80-OS2.5]
[F20,F22,F80-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20,F80-OP2.1]
[F20,F22,F80-OP2.5]
[F20,F22,F80-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
      © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
9.37.1.1.
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
(2) (a) [F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
(a) [F20,F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
(a) [F20,F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
(4) [F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F20,F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
9.20.11.1. Anchorage to Floor or Roof Assemblies where Masonry Walls Require Lateral Support
(1) [F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F20,F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
(2) [F20,F80-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F80-OS2.1]
[F20,F80-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F80-OP2.1,OP2.4]
[F20,F80-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator or are exposed to moisture.
[F20,F80-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F20,F80-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
(3) [F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OS2.1]
[F20-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.4]
[F20-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator or are exposed to moisture.
[F20-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F20-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
(4) [F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F20,F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Division B
9-271
         [F20-OS2.1]
[F20,F22-OS2.5]
(a) [F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.4]
[F20,F22-OP2.5]
(a) [F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
          [F20,F80-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F80-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
       [F20-OS2.1]
[F20,F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator or are exposed to moisture.
   [F20-OP2.1]
[F20,F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator or are exposed to moisture.
             [F20-OS2.1]
[F20,F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1]
[F20,F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator or are exposed to moisture.
        [F20-OS2.1]
[F20,F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1]
[F20,F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
         © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 9.37.1.1.
Division B
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.20.11.2. Bonding and Tying Intersecting Masonry Walls where Walls Require Lateral Support
(1) [F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F20,F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
(2) [F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OS2.1]
[F20-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.4]
[F20-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F20-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
(3) [F20,F80-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F20,F80-OS2.1]
[F20,F80-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F80-OP2.1,OP2.4]
[F20,F80-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F80-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F80-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.20.11.3. Anchoring Intersecting Wood-Frame Walls to Masonry Walls
(1) [F20,F22,F80-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22,F80-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F20,F22,F80-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
(2) [F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OS2.1]
[F20-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.4]
[F20-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F20-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
9.20.11.4. Anchoring Wood-Frame Roof Systems to Masonry Walls
9-272 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
(1)
(2)
[F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3] [F20-OP2.1,OP2.3] [F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3] [F20-OP2.1,OP2.3]
9.20.11.5. Anchoring Masonry Cornices, Sills and Trim to Masonry Walls
(1) [F20,F80-OS2.1,OS2.3,OS2.5] [F22-OS2.5]
         [F20-OS2.1]
[F20,F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1]
[F20,F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator or are exposed to moisture.
    [F20,F80-OS2.1]
[F20,F22,F80-OS2.5]
[F20,F22,F80-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20,F80-OP2.1]
[F20,F22,F80-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22,F80-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
            [F20,F22,F80-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22,F80-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
                            [F20,F80-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F80-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
    © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
9.37.1.1.
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.20.11.6. Anchoring to Masonry Piers
(1) [F20-OS2.1]
[F20-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OP2.1]
[F20-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors. [F20-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
9.20.12.1. Corbelling
(1) [F20-OS2.1]
[F20-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OP2.1]
[F20-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F20-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
(2) [F20-OS2.1]
[F20-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.4]
[F20-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F20-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
9.20.12.2. Corbelling for Cavity Walls
(1) [F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OS2.1]
[F20-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.4]
[F20-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors. [F20-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
(2)
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
[F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OS2.1]
[F20-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.4]
[F20-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Division B
9-273
9.20.12.3. Corbelling for Masonry Veneer
(1) [F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OS2.1]
[F20-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OP2.1]
[F20-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
(2) [F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OS2.1]
[F20-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OP2.1]
[F20-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
9.20.13.1. Materials for Flashing
(1) [F80-OS2.1,OS2.3] [F80-OP2.1,OP2.3]
[F80-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F80-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
(2) [F80-OS2.1,OS2.3] [F80-OP2.1,OP2.3]
[F80-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F80-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
9.20.13.2. Fastening of Flashing
(1) [F80-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F80-OS2.1,OS2.3] [F80-OP2.1,OP2.3]
[F80-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
9.20.13.3. Location of Flashing
(1) [F61,F62-OS2.1,OS2.3] [F61,F62-OP2.1,OP2.3]
[F61,F62-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
                                                            © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 9.37.1.1.
Division B
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.20.13.4. Extension of Flashing
(1) [F61-OS2.1,OS2.3] [F61-OP2.1,OP2.3]
[F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F61-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
9.20.13.5. Flashing for Weep Holes in Masonry/Masonry Walls
(1) [F61,F62-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61,F62-OS2.1,OS2.3] [F61,F62-OP2.1,OP2.3]
[F61,F62-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
9.20.13.6. Flashing for Weep Holes in Masonry Veneer
(2) [F61,F62-OS2.1,OS2.3] [F61,F62-OP2.1,OP2.3]
[F61,F62-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F61,F62-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
(3) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.1,OS2.3] [F61-OP2.1,OP2.3]
[F61-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
9.20.13.7. Flashing Joints
(1) [F61,F62-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61,F62-OS2.1,OS2.3] [F61,F62-OP2.1,OP2.3]
[F61,F62-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
9.20.13.8. Required Weep Holes
(1) [F62-OS2.1,OS2.3] [F62-OP2.1,OP2.3]
[F62-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F62-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
9.20.13.9. Protection of Interior Finish
(1) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.1,OS2.3] [F61-OP2.1,OP2.3]
(2) [F61,F62-OS2.1,OS2.3] [F61,F62-OP2.1,OP2.3]
[F61,F62-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.20.13.10. Mortar Droppings
9-274 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
(1)
[F61,F62-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F61,F62-OS2.1,OS2.3]
[F61,F62-OP2.1,OP2.3]
[F61,F62-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
9.20.13.12. Drips beneath Window Sills
(1)
[F61,F62-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F61,F62-OS2.1,OS2.3]
[F61,F62-OP2.1,OP2.3]
[F61,F62-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
9.20.14.1. Laying Temperature of Mortar and Masonry
(1) [F20,F80-OS2.1]
[F20,F80-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator or are exposed to moisture.
[F20,F80-OP2.1,OP2.4]
[F20,F80-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator or are exposed to moisture.
[F20,F80-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F80-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F20,F80-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
(2) [F20,F80-OS2.1]
[F20,F80-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator or are exposed to moisture.
[F20,F80-OP2.1,OP2.4]
[F20,F80-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator or are exposed to moisture.
[F20,F80-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F80-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F20,F80-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
9.20.14.2. Protection from Weather
(1) [F80-OS2.1,OS2.3] [F80-OP2.1,OP2.3]
                                          [F20,F80-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F80-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
                     [F20,F80-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F80-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
         © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
9.37.1.1.
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.20.15.1. Amount of Reinforcement
(1) [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3] [F20-OP2.1,OP2.3]
9.20.15.2. Installation Standard
(1) [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3] [F20-OP2.1,OP2.3]
9.20.16.1. Corrosion Resistance of Connectors
(1) [F80-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F80-OS2.1]
[F80-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator or are exposed to moisture.
[F80-OP2.1,OP2.4]
[F80-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator or are exposed to moisture.
[F80-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F80-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F80-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors. [F80-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
9.20.17.1. Thickness of Flat Insulating Concrete Form Walls
(1)
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.20.17.2. Reinforcement for Flat Insulating Concrete Form Walls
(1)
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
(3)
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-275
(2)
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
        [F20-OS2.1]
[F22-OS2.4]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1]
[F22-OP2.4]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
              [F20,F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
  [F20-OS2.1]
[F22-OS2.4]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1]
[F22-OP2.4]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
           [F20-OS2.1]
[F22-OS2.4]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1]
[F22-OP2.4]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
       [F20,F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
  [F20-OS2.1]
[F22-OS2.4]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1]
[F22-OP2.4]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
       [F20,F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
       [F20,F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 9.37.1.1.
Division B
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.20.17.3. Openings in Non-Loadbearing Flat Insulating Concrete Form Walls
(1) [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.4]
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.3] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.4]
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F20,F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
(2)
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
(5)
(3)
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
9-276 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
(4)
(6)
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
      [F20-OS2.1]
[F22-OS2.4]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1]
[F22-OP2.4]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
          [F20,F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
  [F20-OS2.1]
[F22-OS2.4]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1]
[F22-OP2.4]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
      [F20,F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
  [F20-OS2.1]
[F22-OS2.4]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1]
[F22-OP2.4]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
          [F20,F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
  [F20-OS2.1]
[F22-OS2.4]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1]
[F22-OP2.4]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
      [F20,F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
  [F20-OS2.1]
[F22-OS2.4]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1]
[F22-OP2.4]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
          [F20,F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
     [F20,F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
  © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
9.37.1.1.
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.20.17.4. Openings in Loadbearing Flat Insulating Concrete Form Walls
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
(4) [F20-OS2.1]
[F20-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OP2.1]
[F20-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
9.20.17.5. Framing Supported on Flat Insulating Concrete Form Walls
(1)
[F20,F22-OH4]
[F20,F22-OS3.1] (2)
[F20,F22-OH4]
[F20,F22-OS3.1] (3)
[F20,F22-OH4]
[F20,F22-OS3.1]
9.20.17.6. Anchoring of Roof Framing to the Top of Flat Insulating Concrete Form Walls
(1) [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.4] [F20-OP2.1,OP2.3] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.4] [F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
(2) [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.4] [F20-OP2.1,OP2.3] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.4] [F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
(1)
(2)
(3)
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Division B
9-277
       [F20-OS2.1]
[F22-OS2.4]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1]
[F22-OP2.4]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
           [F20-OS2.1]
[F22-OS2.4]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1]
[F22-OP2.4]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
     [F20,F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
  [F20-OS2.1]
[F22-OS2.4]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1]
[F22-OP2.4]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
        [F20-OS2.1]
[F22-OS2.4]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1]
[F22-OP2.4]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
      [F20,F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
  [F20-OS2.1]
[F22-OS2.4]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1]
[F22-OP2.4]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
      [F20-OS2.1]
[F22-OS2.4]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1]
[F22-OP2.4]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
             [F20,F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
      © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 9.37.1.1.
Division B
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.21.1.2. Chimney or Flue Pipe Walls
(1) [F01-OS1.1] Applies to the walls of any chimney or flue pipe, which are required to be constructed to be flame-tight.
[F44-OH1.1] Applies to the walls of any chimney or flue pipe, which are required to be constructed to be smoke-tight.
[F01-OP1.1] Applies to the walls of any chimney or flue pipe, which are required to be constructed to be flame-tight.
9.21.2.1. Chimney Flue Limitations
(1) [F44-OH1.1] [F44-OS3.4]
(2) [F44-OH1.1] [F44-OS3.4]
(3) [F44-OS3.4] [F44-OH1.1]
9.21.2.2. Connections of More Than One Appliance
(1) [F44-OH1.1] [F44-OS3.4]
(2) [F44-OS3.4]
(3) [F44-OH1.1] [F44-OS3.4]
(4) [F44-OH1.1] [F44-OS3.4]
9.21.2.3. Inclined Chimney Flues
(1) [F44-OH1.1] [F44-OS3.4]
9.21.2.4. Size of Chimney Flues
(2) [F44-OH1.1] [F44-OS3.4]
9.21.2.5. Fireplace Chimneys
(1) [F44-OH1.1] [F44-OS3.4]
9.21.2.6. Oval Chimney Flues
(1) [F44-OH1.1] [F44-OS3.4]
9.21.3.1. Lining Materials
(1) [F20-OS2.3] [F20-OH1.1] [F01-OS1.1] [F44-OS3.4]
[F44,F01,F20-OP1.1]
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.21.3.2. Joints in Chimney Liners
9-278 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
(1)
(2)
[F44-OH1.1] [F44,F20-OS2.3] [F01-OS1.1] [F01-OP1.1] [F01-OS3.4] [F01-OS1.1] [F44-OS3.4] [F01-OP1.1] [F44-OH1.1]
9.21.3.3. Clay Liners
(1)
(2)
[F20-OS2.2] [F01-OS1.1] [F20,F44-OS3.4] [F20,F44-OH1.1] [F20,F01-OP1.1] [F44-OH1.1] [F01,F20-OP1.1] [F44-OS3.4] [F01,F20-OS1.1]
[F20-OS2.3] Applies to the liners referred to in
Sentence 9.21.3.3.(1), which are required to be not less than 15.9 mm thick.
9.21.3.4. Firebrick Liners
(1) [F20,F44-OS3.4] [F44-OH1.1]
[F01-OS1.1]
[F01-OP1.1]
(2) [F20-OH1.1]
[F20,F01-OS1.1] [F20-OS2.2] [F20,F44-OS3.4] [F01,F20-OP1.1]
9.21.3.5. Concrete Liners
(1) [F01,F20-OS1.1] [F44-OH1.1]
[F20,F44-OS3.4] [F01-OP1.1] [F20-OS2.3]
                                                                              © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
9.37.1.1.
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.21.3.6. Metal Liners
(1) [F20,F44-OH1.1] [F01,F20-OP1.1] [F20,F44-OS3.4] [F20,F01-OS1.1]
[F20-OS2.3]
(2) [F44-OH1.1] [F20-OS2.3] [F20-OP1.1]
[F20,F44-OS3.4]
[F20,F01-OS1.1]
9.21.3.7. Installation of Chimney Liners
(1) [F44-OH1.1] [F01-OP1.1] [F44-OS3.4] [F01-OS1.1] [F20-OS2.3]
9.21.3.8. Spaces between Liners and Surrounding Masonry
(1) [F01-OP1.1] [F20-OS2.3] [F01-OS1.1]
(2) [F20-OS1.1] [F44-OH1.1] [F44-OS3.4] [F01-OP1.1] [F20-OS2.3]
9.21.3.9. Mortar for Chimney Liners
(1) (b) [F20-OS2.3]
(a),(b) [F01,F20-OP1.1]
[F20,F44-OH1.1] [F20,F44-OS3.4] (a),(b) [F01,F20-OS1.1]
(2) [F20,F01-OP1.1] [F20,F44-OH1.1]
[F20-OS2.3] [F44-OS3.4] [F20,F01-OS1.1]
9.21.3.10. Extension of Chimney Liners
(1) [F20-OS2.3] [F44,F20-OH1.1]
[F44-OS3.4] [F01-OS1.1] [F01-OP1.1]
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.21.4.4. Height of Chimney Flues
(1) (a),(b) [F44-OH1.1] (a),(b) [F44-OS3.4]
9.21.4.6. Chimney Caps
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Division B
9-279
(1)
(2) (3)
(4)
[F20-OS2.3] [F01-OS1.1] [F01-OP1.1] [F20,F44-OH1.1] [F44-OS3.4] [F20-OS2.3] [F20-OS2.3] [F20,F01-OS1.1] [F20,F01-OP1.1] [F20,F44-OS3.4] [F20-OS2.3] [F20,F01-OS1.1] [F20,F01-OP1.1] [F20,F44-OH1.1] [F20,F44-OS3.4]
9.21.4.7. Cleanout
(1) [F01-OP1.1] [F01-OS1.1]
9.21.4.8. Wall Thickness
(1)
[F20,F22-OS2.1] [F01-OP1.1] [F01-OS1.1] [F22-OP2.1]
9.21.4.9. Separation of Flue Liners
(1)
(2)
[F20,F44-OH1.1] [F20,F01-OP1.1] [F20,F22-OS2.3] [F44-OS3.4] [F01-OS1.1] [F20,F22-OS2.3] [F20,F44-OH1.1] [F20,F44-OS3.4] [F01-OS1.1]
9.21.4.10. Flashing
(1) [F20,F61-OS2.3]
9.21.5.1. Clearance from Combustible Materials
(1) (a),(b) [F01-OP1.1] (a),(b) [F01-OS1.1]
                                                                                         © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 9.37.1.1.
Division B
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
(2) [F01-OP1.1] [F01-OS1.1]
(3) [F01-OP1.1] [F01-OS1.1]
9.21.5.2. Sealing of Spaces
(1) [F01-OP1.1] [F01-OS1.1]
9.21.5.3. Support of Joists or Beams
(1) [F01-OP1.1] [F01-OS1.1]
9.22.1.2. Masonry and Concrete
(2) [F22,F20-OS2.3]
9.22.1.4. Combustion Air
(1) [F01-OS1.1] [F01-OP1.1]
9.22.2.1. Brick or Steel Liners
(1) [F20,F01-OS1.1] [F20,F01-OP1.1]
9.22.2.2. Firebrick Liners
(1) (a),(b) [F01-OS1.1] (a),(b) [F01-OP1.1]
(2) [F01-OS1.1] [F01-OP1.1]
(3) [F01-OS1.1] [F01-OP1.1]
9.22.2.3. Steel Liners
(1) [F44-OH1.1] [F01-OS1.1] [F44-OS3.4] [F01-OP1.1]
9.22.3.1. Thickness of Walls
(1) [F01-OS1.1] [F01-OP1.1]
(2) (a),(b) [F01-OS1.1] (a),(b) [F01-OP1.1]
9.22.4.1. Fire Chamber Dimensions
(1) [F44-OH1.1] [F44-OS3.4]
9.22.5.1. Hearth Extension
(1) [F01-OS1.1] [F01-OP1.1]
(2) (a),(b) [F01-OS1.1] (a),(b) [F01-OP1.1]
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.22.5.2. Support of Hearth
9-280 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
(1)
(2)
[F01-OS1.1] [F20-OS2.3] [F20,F01-OP1.1] [F01-OS1.1] [F01-OP1.1]
9.22.6.1. Required Damper and Size
(1)
[F01-OS1.1] [F54-OH1.2] [F01-OP1.1]
9.22.7.1. Slope of Smoke Chamber
(1) [F44-OH1.1] [F44-OS3.4]
9.22.7.2. Wall Thickness
(1) [F01-OS1.1] [F01-OP1.1]
9.22.8.1. Conformance to Standard
(1) [F01-OS1.1] [F44-OH1.1] [F01-OP1.1] [F44-OS3.4]
9.22.9.1. Clearance to the Fireplace Opening
(1) [F01-OS1.1] [F01-OP1.1]
9.22.9.2. Metal Exposed to the Interior
(1) [F01-OS1.1] [F01-OP1.1]
9.22.9.3. Clearance to Combustible Framing
(1) [F01-OS1.1] [F01-OP1.1]
(2) [F01-OS1.1] [F01-OP1.1]
9.22.9.4. Heat-Circulating Duct Outlets
(1) (a),(b) [F01-OS1.1] (a),(b) [F01-OP1.1]
9.22.10.1. Appliance Standard
(1)
[F44-OH1.1] [F01-OS1.1] [F44-OS3.4] [F01-OP1.1]
                                                                                       © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
9.37.1.1.
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.22.10.2. Installation
(1) [F01-OS1.1] [F44-OH1.1] [F01-OP1.1] [F44-OS3.4]
9.23.2.1. Strength and Rigidity
(1)
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.23.2.3. Protection from Dampness
[F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors. [F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors. [F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
9.23.2.2. Protection from Decay
(1) [F80-OS2.3] [F80-OP2.3,OP2.4]
[F80-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F80-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F80-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F80-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors. [F80-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
(2) [F81-OS2.3] [F81-OP2.3]
[F81-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F81-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F81-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors. [F81-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
(2)
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-281
(1)
[F80-OS2.1,OS2.3] [F80-OP2.1,OP2.3,OP2.4]
[F80-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F80-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F80-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F80-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
9.23.3.1. Standards for Nails and Screws
(1)
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors. [F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
                [F20-OS2.1]
[F20,F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1]
[F20,F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
        [F20-OS2.1]
[F20,F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1]
[F20,F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
               [F20-OS2.1]
[F20,F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1]
[F20,F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
                © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 9.37.1.1.
Division B
(3)
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors. [F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.23.3.4. Nailing of Framing
9.23.3.2. Length of Nails
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors. [F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors. [F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
[F20-OS2.1] [F20,F22-OS2.3] [F20,F22-OS2.5]
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.5] [F20,F22-OP2.3] [F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F20-OS2.1] [F20,F22-OS2.3] [F20,F22-OS2.5]
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.5] [F20,F22-OP2.3] [F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
(1) (2)
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors. [F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
9.23.3.3. Prevention of Splitting (3)
(1) [F80-OS2.1]
[F80-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F80-OP2.1,OP2.4]
[F80-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of
an environmental separator. (4)
[F80-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F80-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F80-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors. [F80-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
9-282 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
(1)
     [F20-OS2.1]
[F20,F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
     [F20-OS2.1]
[F20,F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
             [F20-OS2.1]
[F20,F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
    [F20-OS2.1]
[F20,F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
                          © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
9.37.1.1.
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.23.3.5. Fasteners for Sheathing or Subflooring (5) (1) [F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors. [F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that
support or are part of an environmental separator. (6)
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors. [F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors. [F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
[F20,F22-OS2.1]
[F20-OP2.1] [F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F20-OS2.1] [F20,F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.5] [F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
(2) [F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors. [F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
[F20-OS2.1] [F20,F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.5] [F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
(3) [F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors. [F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
[F20-OS2.1] [F20,F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.5] [F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
(7)
(8)
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-283
      [F20-OS2.1]
[F20,F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
        [F20-OS2.1]
[F20,F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
         [F20-OS2.1]
[F20,F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
                         © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 9.37.1.1.
Division B
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.23.4.2. Spans for Joists, Rafters and Beams
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.23.4.3. Steel Beams
(1)
(1)
(2)
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors. [F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors. [F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
(2)
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors. [F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
[F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors. [F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
[F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
(3) [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3,OS2.5] [F20-OP2.1,OP2.3,OP2.5]
(4) [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3,OS2.5] [F20-OP2.1,OP2.3,OP2.5]
9.23.4.4. Concrete Topping
(1)
9-284 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
[F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors. [F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
       [F20-OS2.1,OS2.5]
[F22-OS2.4,OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
    [F20-OS2.1,OS2.5]
[F22-OS2.4,OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
            [F20-OS2.1,OS2.5]
[F22-OS2.4,OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
    [F20-OS2.1,OS2.5]
[F22-OS2.4,OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
               [F20-OS2.1,OS2.5]
[F22-OS2.4,OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
         © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
9.37.1.1.
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors. [F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
(3)
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.23.5.1. Holes Drilled in Framing Members
(2)
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F20,F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors. [F22-OS3.7] Applies to elements that support walls that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors. [F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
[F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
9.23.4.5. Heavy Roofing Materials
(1)
9.23.5.3. Wall Studs
(1)
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors. [F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors. [F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-285
(1)
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors. [F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
[F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
9.23.5.2. Notching of Framing Members
(1)
     [F20-OS2.1,OS2.5]
[F22-OS2.4,OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
     [F20-OS2.1,OS2.5]
[F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
            [F20-OS2.1,OS2.5]
[F22-OS2.4,OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
     [F20-OS2.1,OS2.5]
[F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
             [F20-OS2.1,OS2.5]
[F22-OS2.4,OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
     [F20-OS2.1,OS2.5]
[F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
          © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 9.37.1.1.
Division B
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.23.5.4. Top Plates (2) (1)
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors. [F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
9.23.5.5. Roof Trusses
(1)
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
9.37.1.1.
Division B
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.23.5.4. Top Plates (2) (1)
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors. [F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
9.23.5.5. Roof Trusses
(1)
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
[F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
(3) [F20-OS2.1,OS2.5] [F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.5] [F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
(4) [F20-OS2.1,OS2.5] [F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.5] [F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors. (5)
[F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
9.23.6.1. Anchorage of Building Frames
(1)
[F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors. [F20-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
9-286 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
    [F20-OS2.1,OS2.5]
[F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.[F20-OP2.1,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator. [F20-OS2.1,OS2.5]
[F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.[F20-OP2.1,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.            [F20-OS2.1,OS2.5]
[F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.[F20-OP2.1,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.          [F20-OS2.1,OS2.5]
[F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.[F20-OP2.1,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.  [F20-OS2.1,OS2.5]
[F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.[F20-OP2.1,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.        © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022
 Division B
9.37.1.1.
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
(6) [F20-OS2.1,OS2.5] [F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.5] [F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
9.23.6.2. Anchorage of Columns and Posts
(1) [F22-OS2.4,OS2.5]
[F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors. [F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
(2) [F22-OS2.4,OS2.5]
[F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
9.23.6.3. Anchorage of Smaller Buildings
(1) [F22-OS2.3,OS2.5]
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.23.7.1. Size of Sill Plates
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-287
(1)
(1)
(1)
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors. [F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
[F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
9.23.7.2. Levelling and Sealing of Sill Plates
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
9.23.8.1. Bearing for Beams
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
       [F20-OS2.1,OS2.5]
[F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
                 [F20-OS2.1,OS2.5]
[F22-OS2.4,OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
               [F20-OS2.1,OS2.5]
[F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
          [F20,F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
  © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 9.37.1.1.
Division B
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.23.8.2. Priming of Steel Beams
(1) [F80-OS2.1]
[F80-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F80-OP2.1,OP2.4]
[F80-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F80-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F80-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F80-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F80-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
9.23.8.3. Built-up Wood Beams
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(2) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(3) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(4) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(5) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(6) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(7) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
(8) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
9.23.9.1. End Bearing for Joists
(1)
(2)
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22-OS3.1]
[F22-OH4]
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F22-OH4]
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22-OS3.1]
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F22-OH4]
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22-OS3.1]
[F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
9-288 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
9.23.9.2. Joists Supported by Beams
(1)
(2)
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F22-OH4]
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22-OS3.1]
[F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
         [F20-OP2.1,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
          [F20-OS2.1,OS2.5]
[F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
        [F20-OS2.1,OS2.5]
[F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
                     [F20-OS2.1,OS2.5]
[F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
        [F20-OS2.1,OS2.5]
[F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
          © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
9.37.1.1.
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F22-OH4]
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22-OS3.1]
[F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F22-OH4]
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22-OS3.1]
[F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
(5)
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.23.9.3. Restraint of Joist Bottoms
(3)
(4)
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F22-OH4]
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22-OS3.1]
[F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F22-OH4]
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22-OS3.1]
[F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F22-OH4]
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22-OS3.1]
[F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-289
(1)
9.23.9.4. Strapping, Bridging, Furring and Ceilings in Span Tables 9.23.4.2.-A and -B
(1)
(2)
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F22-OH4]
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22-OS3.1]
[F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
     [F20-OS2.1,OS2.5]
[F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
     [F20-OS2.1,OS2.5]
[F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
            [F20-OS2.1,OS2.5]
[F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
     [F20-OS2.1,OS2.5]
[F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
           [F20-OS2.1,OS2.5]
[F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
     [F20-OS2.1,OS2.5]
[F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
           © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 9.37.1.1.
Division B
(3)
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F22-OH4]
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22-OS3.1]
[F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F22-OH4]
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22-OS3.1]
[F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F22-OH4]
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22-OS3.1]
[F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F22-OH4]
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22-OS3.1]
[F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
9.23.9.5. Header Joists
(4)
(5)
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F22-OH4]
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22-OS3.1]
[F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
9-290 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
(6)
(1)
9.23.9.6. Trimmer Joists
(1)
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F22-OH4]
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22-OS3.1]
[F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
     [F20-OS2.1,OS2.5]
[F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
    [F20-OS2.1,OS2.5]
[F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
            [F20-OS2.1,OS2.5]
[F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
     [F20-OS2.1,OS2.5]
[F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
            [F20-OS2.1,OS2.5]
[F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
     [F20-OS2.1,OS2.5]
[F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
           © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
9.37.1.1.
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.23.9.7. Support of Tail and Header Joists
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
(4) [F22-OS3.1]
[F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22-OH4]
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F22-OH4]
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22-OS3.1]
[F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
[F22-OS3.1]
[F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.5] [F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F22-OH4]
[F20-OS2.1,OS2.5] [F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
(1)
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F22-OH4]
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22-OS3.1]
[F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls,
that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress. (5)
9.23.9.8. Support of Walls
(1)
(2)
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F22-OH4]
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22-OS3.1]
[F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
(6)
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F22-OH4]
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22-OS3.1]
[F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Division B
9-291
       [F20-OS2.1,OS2.5]
[F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
       [F20-OP2.1,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
    [F20-OS2.1,OS2.5]
[F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
        [F20-OS2.1,OS2.5]
[F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
     [F20-OS2.1,OS2.5]
[F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
             [F20-OS2.1,OS2.5]
[F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
            © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 9.37.1.1.
Division B
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.23.9.9. Cantilevered Floor Joists
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.23.10.1. Stud Size and Spacing
(1)
(1)
(2)
9.23.10.2. Bracing and Lateral Support
(3)
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to walls that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F22-OH4] Applies to walls that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22-OS3.1] Applies to walls that support floors. [F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F22-OH4]
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22-OS3.1]
[F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F22-OH4]
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22-OS3.1]
[F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F22-OH4]
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22-OS3.1]
[F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors. [F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
9-292 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
(1)
9.23.10.3. Orientation of Studs
(1)
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors. [F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
       [F20-OS2.1,OS2.5]
[F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
    [F20-OS2.1,OS2.5]
[F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
            [F20-OS2.1,OS2.5]
[F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
     [F20-OS2.1,OS2.5]
[F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to walls that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to walls that support or are part of an environmental separator.
            [F20-OS2.1,OS2.5]
[F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
     [F20-OS2.1,OS2.5]
[F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
           © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
9.37.1.1.
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors. [F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
9.23.10.4. Continuity of Studs
(1)
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors. [F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
9.23.10.6. Studs at Sides of Openings
(3)
(2)
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors. [F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
9.23.10.5. Support for Cladding, Sheathing and Finishing Materials
(1)
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors. [F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Division B
9-293
(1)
     [F20-OS2.1,OS2.5]
[F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
    [F20-OS2.1,OS2.5]
[F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
     [F20-OP2.1,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
          [F20-OS2.1,OS2.5]
[F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
     [F20-OS2.1,OS2.5]
[F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
          [F20,F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
      [F20-OS2.1,OS2.5]
[F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
       © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 9.37.1.1.
Division B
(2)
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
(b) [F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
(b) [F20,F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
(b) [F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.23.11.1. Size of Wall Plates
(3)
(2) [F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors. [F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
9.23.11.2. Bottom Wall Plates
(1)
9-294 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
(1)
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors. [F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
[F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors. [F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
     [F20-OS2.1,OS2.5]
[F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
     [F20-OS2.1,OS2.5]
[F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
         [F20,F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
       [F20-OS2.1]
(b) [F20,F22-OS2.5]
(b) [F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1]
(b) [F20-OP2.5]
(b) [F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
(b) [F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
     [F20-OP2.1,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
        [F20-OS2.1,OS2.5]
[F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
     (b) [F20,F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
(b) [F20,F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
     [F20-OS2.1,OS2.5]
[F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
       © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
9.37.1.1.
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
(2) [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3,OS2.5] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.5]
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.3,OP2.5] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors. [F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
9.23.11.3. Top Plates
(1)
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors. [F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
(4)
(2)
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors. [F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors. [F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors. [F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors. [F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-295
(3)
9.23.11.4. Joints in Top Plates
(1)
      [F20-OS2.1,OS2.5]
[F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
            [F20-OS2.1,OS2.5]
[F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
       [F20-OS2.1,OS2.5]
[F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
          [F20-OS2.1,OS2.5]
[F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
       [F20-OS2.1,OS2.5]
[F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
          © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 9.37.1.1.
Division B
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors. [F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors. [F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
(4)
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors. [F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
9.23.12.1. Openings in Non-Loadbearing Walls
(2)
(5)
(3)
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors. [F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors. [F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
9-296 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
(1)
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors. [F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
(2) [F20,F22-OS1.2]
9.23.12.2. Openings in Loadbearing Walls
(1)
     [F20-OS2.1,OS2.5]
[F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
    [F20-OS2.1,OS2.5]
[F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
            [F20-OS2.1,OS2.5]
[F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
     [F20-OS2.1,OS2.5]
[F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
            [F20-OS2.1,OS2.5]
[F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
    [F20-OS2.1,OS2.5]
[F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
           © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
9.37.1.1.
(2)
(3)
(1)
(2)
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors. [F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors. [F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
9.23.12.3. Lintel Spans and Sizes
9.23.13.1. Requirements for Low to Moderate Wind and Seismic Forces
(2) [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3,OS2.5] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.4,OS2.5]
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.3,OP2.5] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22-OS3.1] Applies to walls that support floors. [F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
[F20,F22-OH4] Applies to walls that support floors.
9.23.13.4. Braced Wall Bands
(1) [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3,OS2.5] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.4,OS2.5] [F20-OP2.1,OP2.3,OP2.5] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22-OS3.1] Applies to walls that support floors. [F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
[F20,F22-OH4] Applies to walls that support floors.
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
(2) [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3,OS2.5] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.4,OS2.5]
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.3,OP2.5] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22-OS3.1] Applies to walls that support floors. [F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
[F20,F22-OH4] Applies to walls that support floors.
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors. [F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors. [F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-297
     [F20-OS2.1,OS2.5]
[F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
    [F20-OS2.1,OS2.5]
[F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
              [F20-OS2.1,OS2.5]
[F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
                  [F20-OS2.1,OS2.5]
[F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
                © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 9.37.1.1.
Division B
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
(3) [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3,OS2.5] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.4,OS2.5] [F20-OP2.1,OP2.3,OP2.5] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22-OS3.1] Applies to walls that support floors. [F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
[F20,F22-OH4] Applies to walls that support floors.
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
9.23.13.5. Braced Wall Panels in Braced Wall Bands
(1) [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3,OS2.5] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.4,OS2.5] [F20-OP2.1,OP2.3,OP2.5] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22-OS3.1] Applies to walls that support floors. [F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
[F20,F22-OH4] Applies to walls that support floors.
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
(2) [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3,OS2.5] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.4,OS2.5] [F20-OP2.1,OP2.3,OP2.5] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22-OS3.1] Applies to walls that support floors. [F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
[F20,F22-OH4] Applies to walls that support floors.
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
9.23.13.6. Materials in Braced Wall Panels
(1) [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3,OS2.5] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.4,OS2.5] [F20-OP2.1,OP2.3,OP2.5] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22-OS3.1] Applies to walls that support floors. [F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
[F20,F22-OH4] Applies to walls that support floors.
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
(2) [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3,OS2.5] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.4,OS2.5] [F20-OP2.1,OP2.3,OP2.5] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22-OS3.1] Applies to walls that support floors. [F20,F22-OH4] Applies to walls that support floors.
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
(4) [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3,OS2.5] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.4,OS2.5] [F20-OP2.1,OP2.3,OP2.5] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22-OS3.1] Applies to walls that support floors. [F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
[F20,F22-OH4] Applies to walls that support floors.
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
(5) [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3,OS2.5] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.4,OS2.5] [F20-OP2.1,OP2.3,OP2.5] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22-OS3.1] Applies to walls that support floors. [F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
[F20,F22-OH4] Applies to walls that support floors.
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
(6) [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3,OS2.5] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.4,OS2.5]
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.3,OP2.5] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22-OS3.1] Applies to walls that support floors. [F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
[F20,F22-OH4] Applies to walls that support floors.
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
9.23.13.7. Additional System Considerations
(7) [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3,OS2.5] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.4,OS2.5] [F20-OP2.1,OP2.3,OP2.5] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22-OS3.1] Applies to walls that support floors. [F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
[F20,F22-OH4] Applies to walls that support floors.
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
9-298 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
                                                            © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
9.37.1.1.
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.23.14.1. Continuity of Rafters and Joists
(1)
(3)
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
[F20-OS2.1,OS2.3,OS2.5] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.5]
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.3,OP2.5] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
9.23.14.5. Shaping of Rafters
(1) [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3,OS2.5] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.5]
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.3,OP2.5] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
9.23.14.6. Hip and Valley Rafters
(1) [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3,OS2.5] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.5] [F20-OP2.1,OP2.3,OP2.5] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.5] [F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
9.23.14.7. Intermediate Support for Rafters and Joists
(1) [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3,OS2.5] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.5]
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.3,OP2.5] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
(2) [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3,OS2.5] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.5] [F20-OP2.1,OP2.3,OP2.5] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.5] (4) [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3,OS2.5] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.5] [F20-OP2.1,OP2.3,OP2.5] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
(5) [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3,OS2.5] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.5]
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.3,OP2.5] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
(6) [F20-OP2.1,OP2.3,OP2.5] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.4,OP2.5] [F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3,OS2.5] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.5] [F22-OH4]
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors. [F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
9.23.14.2. Framing around Openings
(1)
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
9.23.14.3. End Bearing Length
(1)
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
9.23.14.4. Location and Attachment of Rafters
(1) [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3,OS2.5] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.5]
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.3,OP2.5] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
(2) [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3,OS2.5] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.5]
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.3,OP2.5] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-299
        [F20-OS2.1,OS2.5]
[F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
                [F20-OS2.1,OS2.5]
[F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
                [F20-OS2.1,OS2.5]
[F22-OS2.5]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.5]
[F22-OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
                            © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 9.37.1.1.
Division B
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.23.14.8. Ridge Support
(1) [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3,OS2.5] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.5]
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.3,OP2.5] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
(3) [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3,OS2.5] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.5]
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.3,OP2.5] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
(4) [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3,OS2.5] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.5]
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.3,OP2.5] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
(5) [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3,OS2.5] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.5]
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.3,OP2.5] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
(6) [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3,OS2.5] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.5]
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.3,OP2.5] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
(7) [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3,OS2.5] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.5]
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.3,OP2.5] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F20,F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.23.14.9. Restraint of Joist Bottoms
(1) [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3,OS2.5] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.5]
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.3,OP2.5] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
9.23.14.10. Ceiling Joists Supporting Roof Load
(1) [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3,OS2.5] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.5]
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.3,OP2.5] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
(2) [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3,OS2.5] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.5]
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.3,OP2.5] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
9.23.14.11. Roof Trusses
(1) [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3,OS2.5] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.5]
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.3,OP2.5] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.4,OP2.5]
(b) [F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
(b) [F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
(3) [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3,OS2.5] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.5] [F20-OP2.1,OP2.3,OP2.5] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.5] (4) [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3,OS2.5] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.5] [F20-OP2.1,OP2.3,OP2.5] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.5] (5) [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3,OS2.5] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.5] [F20-OP2.1,OP2.3,OP2.5] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
(6) [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3,OS2.5] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.5]
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.3,OP2.5] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
9.23.15.1. Subflooring Required
(1) [F20-OS2.1]
9.23.15.2. Material Standards
(1) [F22-OS3.1] [F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OH4] [F20-OS2.1]
9-300 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
                                                                         © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
9.37.1.1.
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
(2) [F80-OS3.1] [F80-OP2.4]
[F80-OH4]
[F80-OS2.1]
(3) [F22-OS3.1] [F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OH4]
[F20-OS2.1]
(4) [F80-OS3.1] [F80-OP2.4]
[F80-OH4]
[F80-OH1.1]
9.23.15.3. Edge Support
(1) [F22-OS3.1] [F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OH4]
9.23.15.4. Direction of Installation
(1) [F22-OS3.1] [F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OH4]
(2) [F22-OS3.1] [F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OH4]
9.23.15.5. Subfloor Thickness or Rating
(1) [F22-OS3.1] [F22-OP2.4]
[F22-OH4]
[F20-OS2.1]
(2) [F20-OS2.1] [F22-OS3.1]
[F22-OH4]
[F22-OP2.4]
(3) [F20-OS2.1]
[F22-OH4] [F22-OS3.1] [F22-OP2.4]
9.23.15.6. Annular Grooved Nails
(1) [F81-OS2.3] [F81-OP2.3] [F81-OH1.1]
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.23.15.7. Lumber Subflooring
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-301
(1)
(2)
(3)
[F22-OS3.1] [F22-OP2.4] [F22-OH4] [F22-OS3.1] [F22-OP2.4] [F22-OH4] [F22-OS3.1] [F22-OP2.4]
9.23.16.1. Required Roof Sheathing
(1) [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3,OS2.5] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.4,OS2.5] [F20-OP2.1,OP2.3,OP2.5] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.4,OP2.5] [F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
9.23.16.2. Material Standards
(1)
[F20-OS2.1,OS2.3,OS2.5] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.5]
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.3,OP2.5] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
9.23.16.3. Direction of Installation
(1) [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3,OS2.5] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.5]
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.3,OP2.5] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
(2) [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3,OS2.5] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.5]
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.3,OP2.5] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
9.23.16.4. Joints in Panel-Type Sheathing
(1)
(2)
[F20-OS2.1,OS2.3,OS2.5] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.5]
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.3,OP2.5] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F20-OS2.1,OS2.3,OS2.5] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.5]
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.3,OP2.5] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
                                                                                © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 9.37.1.1.
Division B
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.23.16.5. Lumber Roof Sheathing
(1) [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3,OS2.5] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.5]
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.3,OP2.5] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
(2) [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3,OS2.5] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.4,OS2.5] [F20-OP2.1,OP2.3,OP2.5] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
9.23.16.6. Edge Support
(1) [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3,OS2.5] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.5]
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.3,OP2.5] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
9.23.16.7. Thickness or Rating
(1) [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3,OS2.5] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.5] [F20-OP2.1,OP2.3,OP2.5] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.4,OP2.5] [F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F22-OH4]
[F22-OS3.1]
(2) [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3,OS2.5] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.5]
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.3,OP2.5] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.5] [F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
(3) [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3,OS2.5] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.5] [F20-OP2.1,OP2.3,OP2.5] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.5] [F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
(4) [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3,OS2.5] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.5] [F20-OP2.1,OP2.3,OP2.5] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.5] [F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
9.23.17.1. Required Sheathing
(1) [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3,OS2.5] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.5] [F20-OP2.1,OP2.3,OP2.5] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.4,OP2.5] [F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors. [F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
[F20,F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.23.17.2. Thickness, Rating and Material Standards
(1) [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3,OS2.5] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.5]
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.3,OP2.5] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F20,F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
9.23.17.4. Lumber Sheathing
9-302 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
(1)
(2)
[F20-OS2.1,OS2.3,OS2.5] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.5]
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.3,OP2.5] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F20,F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F20-OS2.1,OS2.3,OS2.5] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.5]
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.3,OP2.5] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors. [F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
[F20,F22-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
9.23.17.5. Joints in Panel-Type Sheathing
(1) [F80,F81-OS2.3] [F80,F81-OP2.3,OP2.4]
[F80,F81-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F80,F81-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
[F80,F81-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
                                                                  © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
9.37.1.1.
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.24.1.2. Material Standards
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.24.2.2. Thickness of Studs
(1) [F20-OP2.1,OP2.4] [F22-OP2.4]
[F20-OS2.1,OS2.4] [F22-OS2.4]
[F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
9.24.2.3. Runners
(1) [F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
9.24.2.4. Openings in Fire Separations
(1) [F20-OS1.2]
(2) [F20-OS1.2]
(3) [F20-OS1.2]
(4) [F20-OS1.2]
9.24.2.5. Size and Spacing of Studs in Exterior Walls (1) [F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F20-OS2.1,OS2.3,OS2.4] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.4] [F20-OP2.1,OP2.3,OP2.4] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.4]
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22,F80-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
9.24.3.1. Installation of Runners
(1)
(1)
[F20,F22,F80-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F20,F22,F80-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22,F80-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
9.24.1.4. Screws
(1)
[F20,F22,F80-OS2.1]
[F20,F22,F80-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22,F80-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F20,F22,F80-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22,F80-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
9.24.1.5. Cladding, Sheathing and Interior Finish Required
(1) [F20,F22,F80-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F20,F22,F80-OS2.1]
[F20,F22,F80-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22,F80-OP2.1,OP2.4]
[F20,F22,F80-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22,F80-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22,F80-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
9.24.2.1. Size and Spacing of Studs in Interior Walls
(1) [F20-OP2.1,OP2.4] [F22-OP2.4]
[F20-OS2.1,OS2.4] [F22-OS2.4]
[F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22,F80-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-303
        [F20-OP2.1,OP2.4]
[F22,F80-OP2.4]
[F20,F22,F80-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OS2.1,OS2.4]
[F22,F80-OS2.4]
[F20,F22,F80-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
          [F20-OS2.1,OS2.4]
[F22-OS2.4]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.4]
[F22-OP2.4]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
        [F20-OP2.1,OP2.4]
[F22,F80-OP2.4]
[F20,F22,F80-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
                       [F20-OP2.1,OP2.4]
[F22-OP2.4]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
      [F20-OS2.1,OS2.4]
[F22-OS2.4]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
         © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 9.37.1.1.
Division B
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
(2) [F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
(3) [F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F20,F22-OS2.1,OS2.4]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22-OP2.1,OP2.4]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
(4) [F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
9.24.3.2. Fire-Rated Walls
(1) [F21-OS1.2]
(2) [F21-OS1.2]
(3) [F20-OS1.2]
(4) [F20-OS1.2]
(5) [F03-OS1.2]
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.24.3.3. Orientation of Studs
(1) [F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
9.24.3.4. Support for Cladding Materials
(1) [F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F20-OS2.1,OS2.4]
[F20-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.4]
[F20-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
[F20-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
9.24.3.5. Framing around Openings
(1) [F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
9-304 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
       [F20-OS2.1,OS2.4]
[F22-OS2.4]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.4]
[F22-OP2.4]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
       [F20-OS2.1,OS2.4]
[F22-OS2.4]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.4]
[F22-OP2.4]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
                     [F20-OS2.1,OS2.4]
[F22-OS2.4]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.4]
[F22-OP2.4]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
       [F20-OS2.1,OS2.4]
[F22-OS2.4]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.4]
[F22-OP2.4]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
             © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
9.37.1.1.
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
(2) [F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
9.24.3.6. Attachment of Studs to Runners
(1)
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
(3) [F55-OH1.1,OH1.2] [F55-OS2.3]
(4) [F51,F63,F80-OH1.1,OH1.2] [F63,F80-OS2.3]
(5) [F21-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F21-OS2.2,OS2.3]
(6) [F80-OH1.1,OH1.2] [F80-OS2.3]
(7) [F80-OH1.1,OH1.2] [F80-OS2.3]
(8) [F21-OH1.1,OH1.2] [F21-OS2.3]
9.25.2.4. Installation of Loose-Fill Insulation
(1) [F51,F63-OH1.1,OH1.2] [F63-OS2.3]
(2) [F51-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F51-OS2.3]
(4) (a) [F21,F51-OS2.3]
(a) [F21,F51-OH1.1,OH1.2]
(c) [F81-OS2.1,OS2.3]
(c) [F81-OS2.1,OS2.3,OS2.4,OS2.5] Applies where the interior finish provides the required bracing.
(c) [F81-OH1.1,OH1.2]
(c) [F81-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies where the interior finish provides the required bracing.
(c) [F81-OP2.1,OP2.3,OP2.4,OP2.5] Applies where the interior finish provides to the required bracing.
(c) [F81-OP3.1] Applies where the interior finish contributes to the required fire resistance of the wall.
(c) [F81-OH4] Applies where the interior finish provides the required bracing of walls that support floors.
(d) [F80-OS2.3]
(d) [F80-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
(5) [F51,F63-OH1.1,OH1.2]
[F63-OS2.3]
(6) (a) [F51,F62-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] (b) [F51,F63-OH1.1,OH1.2]
(a) [F62,F51-OS2.3] (b) [F51,F63-OS2.3]
9.25.2.5. Installation of Spray-Applied Polyurethane
(1) [F51,F41,F63-OH1.1] [F51,F63-OH1.2] [F63-OS2.3]
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls, and elements that support walls, that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
(2) [F21-OS1.2]
9.24.3.7. Openings for Fire Dampers
(1) [F20-OS1.2]
(2) [F20-OS1.2]
(3) [F03-OS1.2]
9.25.1.1. Scope and Application
(2) [F51,F63-OH1.1,OH1.2] [F55-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F55,F63-OS2.3]
9.25.2.1. Required Insulation
(1) [F51,F63-OH1.1,OH1.2] [F63-OS2.3]
9.25.2.2. Insulation Materials
(1) [F51,F63,F80-OH1.1,OH1.2] [F63,F80-OS2.3]
(3) [F51,F63-OH1.1,OH1.2] [F63-OS2.3]
9.25.2.3. Installation of Thermal Insulation
(1) [F51,F63-OH1.1,OH1.2] [F63-OS2.3]
(2) [F51,F63-OH1.1,OH1.2] [F63-OS2.3]
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Division B
9-305
        [F20-OS2.1,OS2.4]
[F22-OS2.4]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.4]
[F22-OP2.4]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
                  [F20-OS2.1,OS2.4]
[F22-OS2.4]
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
   [F20-OP2.1,OP2.4]
[F22-OP2.4]
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
                        (c) [F81-OS3.7] Applies where the interior finish provides the required bracing.
(c) [F81-OS3.1] Applies where the interior finish provides the required bracing of walls that support floors.
                            © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 9.37.1.1.
Division B
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.25.3.1. Required Barrier to Air Leakage
(1) [F55-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F40-OH1.1] [F55-OS2.3]
[F44-OS1.1] Applies where the air barrier system separates a garage, or suite containing a garage, from residential space.
[F44-OS3.4] Applies where the air barrier system separates a garage, or suite containing a garage, from residential space.
9.25.3.2. Air Barrier System Properties
(1) [F20,F55-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F40-OH1.1] [F20,F55-OS2.3]
[F20,F44-OS1.1] Applies where the air barrier system separates a garage, or suite containing a garage, from residential space.
[F20,F44-OS3.4] Applies where the air barrier system separates a garage, or suite containing a garage, from residential space.
(2) [F20,F80,F55-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F40-OH1.1] [F20,F80,F55-OS2.3]
[F20,F80,F44-OS1.1] Applies where the air barrier system separates a garage, or suite containing a garage, from residential space.
[F20,F80,F44-OS3.4] Applies where the air barrier system separates a garage, or suite containing a garage, from residential space.
9.25.3.3. Continuity of the Air Barrier System
(1) [F55-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F40-OH1.1] [F55-OS2.3]
[F44-OS1.1] Applies where the air barrier system separates a garage, or suite containing a garage, from residential space.
[F44-OS3.4] Applies where the air barrier system separates a garage, or suite containing a garage, from residential space.
(2) [F55-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F40-OH1.1]
(a) [F44-OS3.4] Applies where the air barrier system separates
a garage, or suite containing a garage, from residential space.
[F55-OS2.3]
(a) [F44-OS1.1] Applies where the air barrier system separates a garage, or suite containing a garage, from residential space.
(6) [F55-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F40-OH1.1] [F55-OS2.3]
[F44-OS1.1] Applies where the air barrier system separates a garage, or suite containing a garage, from residential space.
[F44-OS3.4] Applies where the air barrier system separates a garage, or suite containing a garage, from residential space.
(7) [F55-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F40-OH1.1] [F55-OS2.3]
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
(2) [F40-OH1.1]
9.25.3.5. Air Leakage Control in Underground Roofs
(1) [F40-OH1.1]
9.25.3.6. Air Barrier Systems in Floors-on-ground
(1) [F40-OH1.1]
(2) [F40-OH1.1]
(3) [F40-OH1.1]
(5) [F40-OH1.1]
(6) [F40-OH1.1]
9.25.4.1. Required Barrier to Vapour Diffusion (1) [F63-OH1.1,OH1.2]
[F63-OS2.3]
9.25.4.2. Vapour Barrier Materials
(1) [F63-OS2.3] [F63-OH1.1,OH1.2]
(2) [F62,F63-OS2.3] [F62,F63-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
(3) [F63,F80-OS2.3] [F63,F80-OH1.1,OH1.2]
(4) [F63,F80-OS2.3] [F63,F80-OH1.1,OH1.2]
(5) [F63-OS2.3] [F63-OH1.1,OH1.2]
(6) [F63-OS2.3] [F63-OH1.1,OH1.2]
9.25.4.3. Installation of Vapour Barriers
(1) [F63-OH1.1,OH1.2] [F63-OS2.3]
(2) [F63-OH1.1,OH1.2] [F63-OS2.3]
(3) [F63-OS2.3] [F63-OH1.1,OH1.2]
9.25.5.1. General
(2) [F62,F63-OS2.3] [F62,F63-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
9.25.5.2. Position of Low Permeance Materials
(1) [F62,F63-OS2.3] [F62,F63-OH1.1,OH1.2]
9.26.1.2. Required Protection
(1) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] (8) [F01-OS1.1] [F61-OS2.3]
9.25.3.4. Air Leakage Control in Masonry Walls
(1) [F40-OH1.1]
9-306 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
                                                                             © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
9.37.1.1.
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.26.1.3. Alternative Installation Methods
(1) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
9.26.2.1. Material Standards
(1) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
(2) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
9.26.2.2. Installation of Materials
(1) [F61-OH1.2,OH1.3,OH1.1] [F61-OS2.3]
9.26.2.3. Nails
(1) [F20,F80-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F20,F80-OS2.3]
(2) [F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F20-OS2.3]
(3) [F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F20-OS2.3]
(4) [F20,F80-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F20,F80-OS2.3]
9.26.2.4. Staples
(1) [F20,F80-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F20,F80-OS2.3]
(2) [F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F20-OS2.3]
(3) [F20,F80-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F20,F80-OS2.3]
9.26.3.1. Slope
(1) [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3] [F61,F80-OS2.3] [F20,F61,F80-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
(2) [F20,F61,F80-OS2.3] [F20,F61,F80-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
(3) [F61,F80-OS2.3] [F61,F80-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
(4) [F61,F80-OS2.3] [F61,F80-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
(5) [F21-OS2.3] [F21-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
9.26.4.1. Required Flashing at Intersections
(1) [F61-OS2.3] [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.26.4.2. Materials
(1) [F61,F62,F80-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61,F62,F80-OS2.3]
9.26.4.3. Valley Flashing
(1) [F61-OS2.3] [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
(2) [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.4] [F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
(3) [F61-OS2.3] [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
(4) [F20,F61,F80-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F20,F61,F80-OS2.3]
(5) [F20,F61,F80-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F20,F61,F80-OS2.3]
(6) [F20,F61,F80-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F20,F61,F80-OS2.3]
9.26.4.4. Intersection of Shingle Roofs and Masonry
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Division B
9-307
(1)
(2)
(3)
[F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F61-OS2.3]
[F61-OS1.1] Applies where a shingle roof intersects with a masonry chimney.
[F61-OP1.1] Applies where a shingle roof intersects with a masonry chimney.
[F61-OS3.4] Applies where a shingle roof intersects with a masonry chimney.
[F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F61-OS2.3]
[F61-OS1.1] Applies where counter flashing is installed between a shingle roof and a masonry chimney.
[F61-OP1.1] Applies where counter flashing is installed between a shingle roof and a masonry chimney.
[F61-OS3.4] Applies where counter flashing is installed between a shingle roof and a masonry chimney.
[F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F61-OS2.3]
[F61-OS1.1] Applies where flashing is installed between a shingle roof and a masonry chimney.
[F61-OP1.1] Applies where flashing is installed between a shingle roof and a masonry chimney.
[F61-OS3.4] Applies where flashing is installed between a shingle roof and a masonry chimney.
                                                                             © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 9.37.1.1.
Division B
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
(4) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
[F61-OS1.1] Applies where a shingle roof slopes upward from a masonry chimney.
[F61-OP1.1] Applies where a shingle roof slopes upward from a masonry chimney.
[F61-OS3.4] Applies where a shingle roof slopes upward from a masonry chimney.
9.26.4.5. Intersection of Shingle Roofs and Walls other than Masonry
(1) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
(2) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
(3) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
9.26.4.6. Intersection of Built-Up Roofs and Masonry
(1) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
[F61-OS1.1] Applies where a built-up roof intersects with a masonry chimney.
[F61-OP1.1] Applies where a built-up roof intersects with a masonry chimney.
[F61-OS3.4] Applies where a built-up roof intersects with a masonry chimney.
(2) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
[F61-OS1.1] Applies where counter flashing is installed between a built-up roof and a masonry chimney.
[F61-OP1.1] Applies where counter flashing is installed between a built-up roof and a masonry chimney.
[F61-OS3.4] Applies where counter flashing is installed between a built-up roof and a masonry chimney.
9.26.4.7. Intersection of Built-Up Roofs and Walls other than Masonry
(1) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
(2) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
(3) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.26.4.8. Chimney Saddles
(1) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
[F61-OS1.1] [F61-OP1.1] [F61-OS3.4]
(2) [F20,F81-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F20,F81-OS2.3]
[F20,F81-OS1.1] [F20,F81-OP1.1] [F20,F81-OS3.4]
(3) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
(5) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
[F61-OS1.1] [F61-OP1.1] [F61-OS3.4]
9.26.5.1. Required Eave Protection
(1) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
9.26.5.2. Materials
(1) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
9.26.6.1. Materials
(1) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
(2) [F62-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F62-OS2.3]
9.26.6.2. Installation
(1) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
(2) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
(3) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
9.26.7.1. Coverage
(1) [F61,F80-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61,F80-OS2.1]
9.26.7.2. Starter Strip
(1) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
9-308 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
                                                                            © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
9.37.1.1.
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
(2) [F61,F80-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61,F80-OS2.3]
(3) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
9.26.7.3. Head Lap
(1) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
9.26.7.4. Fasteners
(1) [F20,F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F20,F61-OS2.3]
(2) [F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F20-OS2.3]
(3) [F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F20-OS2.3]
(4) [F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F20-OS2.3]
(5) [F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F20-OS2.3]
9.26.7.5. Securing of Tabs
(1) [F20,F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F20,F61-OS2.3]
9.26.7.6. Hips and Ridges
(1) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
(2) [F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F20-OS2.3]
9.26.8.1. Coverage
(1) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
9.26.8.2. Starter Strip
(2) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
9.26.8.3. Securing of Tabs
(1) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
9.26.8.4. Securing of Shingle Courses
(1) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
(2) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
(3) [F61-OS2.3] [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.26.8.5. Hips and Ridges
(1) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
(2) [F61,F80-OS2.3] [F61,F80-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
9.26.9.2. Grade
(1) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
(2) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
9.26.9.3. Size
(1) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
9.26.9.4. Spacing and Joints
(1) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
9.26.9.5. Fastening
(1) [F20,F80-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F20,F80-OS2.3]
9.26.9.6. Exposure
(1) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
9.26.10.1. Size and Thickness
(1) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
9.26.10.2. Underlay
(1) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
(2) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
(3) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
9.26.10.3. Spacing and Joints
(1) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
9.26.10.4. Fastening
(1) [F20,F80-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F20,F80-OS2.3]
9.26.10.5. Exposure
(1) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Division B
9-309
                                                                                       © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 9.37.1.1.
Division B
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.26.10.8. Grade
(1) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
9.26.11.1. Quantity of Materials
(1) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
9.26.11.2. Coal-Tar and Asphalt Products
(1) [F61,F80-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61,F80-OS2.3]
9.26.11.3. Roof Felts
(1) [F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F20-OS2.3]
9.26.11.4. Aggregate Surfacing
(1) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
(2) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
9.26.11.6. Number of Layers
(1) [F20,F80-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F20,F80-OS2.3]
9.26.11.7. Installation of Layers
(1) [F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F20-OS2.3]
(2) [F61,F81-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61,F81-OS2.3]
(3) [F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F20-OS2.3]
9.26.11.8. Roofing over Wood-Based Sheathing
(1) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
(2) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
9.26.11.9. Attachment to Decking
(1) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
9.26.11.10. Cant Strips
(1) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
[F61-OS3.1]
(2) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F61-OS2.3]
(3) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F61-OS2.3]
(4)
(5)
(6)
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
[F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
[F61-OS3.1] [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3] [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
9-310 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
9.26.12.1. Coverage
(1) [F61,F80-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61,F80-OS2.3]
9.26.12.2. Joints
(1) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
9.26.13.1. Thickness
(1) [F61,F80-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61,F80-OS2.3]
9.26.13.2. Support
(1)
[F20-OS2.1,OS2.3] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.4] [F20-OP2.1,OP2.3] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.4] [F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
9.26.14.1. Support
(1)
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.4] [F20-OP2.1,OP2.3] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.4]
9.26.15.1. Installation
(1) [F61,F80-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61,F80-OS2.3]
9.26.16.1. Installation
(1) [F61,F80-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61,F80-OS2.3]
9.26.17.1. Installation
(1) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
9.26.18.2. Downspouts
(1) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
9.27.2.1. Minimizing and Preventing Ingress and Damage
(1) [F61-OS2.3] [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
(2) [F80,F81-OS2.3] [F80,F81-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
                                                                                        © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
9.37.1.1.
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.27.2.2. Minimum Protection from Precipitation Ingress
(3) [F62-OS2.3] [F62-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
(4) [F61,F62-OS2.3] [F61,F62-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
(5) [F61,F62-OS2.3] [F61,F62-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
9.27.2.3. First and Second Planes of Protection
(1) [F61,F62-OS2.3] [F61,F62-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
9.27.2.4. Protection of Cladding from Moisture
(1) [F61,F80-OS2.3] [F61,F80-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
(2) [F61,F80-OS2.3] [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
9.27.3.1. Elements of the Second Plane of Protection
(1) [F61,F62-OS2.3] [F61,F62-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
(3) [F61,F62-OS2.3] [F61,F62-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
9.27.3.2. Sheathing Membrane Material Standard
(1) [F20,F61,F62,F55-OS2.3] [F20,F61,F62,F55-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
9.27.3.3. Required Sheathing Membrane and Installation
(1) [F61,F55-OS2.3] [F61,F55-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
(2) [F61,F55-OS2.3] [F61,F55-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
(3) [F61-OS2.3] [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
9.27.3.4. Insulating Sheathing in lieu of Sheathing Membrane
(2) [F61,F55-OS2.3] [F61,F55-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
9.27.3.5. Sheathing Membranes in lieu of Sheathing
(1) [F61,F55-OS2.3] [F61,F55-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
(2) [F61,F55-OS2.3] [F61,F55-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
9.27.3.6. Face Sealed Cladding
(2) [F20,F61,F55-OS2.3] [F20,F61,F55-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
(3) [F61,F55-OS2.3] [F61,F55-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.27.3.7. Flashing Materials
(1) [F61,F62,F80-OS2.3] [F61,F62,F80-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
9.27.3.8. Flashing Installation
(1) (a),(b),(c)(i) [F61-OS2.3]
(a),(b),(c)(i) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] (c)(ii) [F61,F62-OS2.3]
(c)(ii) [F61,F62-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
(2) (a),(b)(ii),(c)(i) [F61-OS2.3] Applies to detailing of horizontal joints.
(a),(b)(ii),(c)(i) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to detailing of horizontal joints.
(b)(i),(c)(ii) [F61,F62-OS2.3] Applies to cladding installed outboard of a drained and vented air space.
(b)(i), (c)(ii) [F61,F62-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to cladding installed outboard of a drained and vented air space.
(3) [F61,F62-OS2.3] [F61,F62-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
(4) [F61,F62-OS2.3] [F61,F62-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
(5) [F61,F62-OS2.3] [F61,F62-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
9.27.4.1. Required Sealants
(1) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
(2) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
(3) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
9.27.4.2. Materials
(1) [F80-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F80-OS2.3]
(2) [F80-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F80-OS2.3]
(3) [F80-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F80-OS2.3]
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Division B
9-311
                                                                               © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 9.37.1.1.
Division B
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.27.5.1. Attachment
(1)
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.27.5.4. Size and Spacing of Fasteners
(1) [F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to the attachment of panel-type cladding installed to provide the required bracing.
9.27.5.5. Fastener Materials
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.3,OP2.4] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.4,OP2.5] Applies where panel-type cladding is installed to provide the required bracing.
[F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies where panel-type cladding is installed to provide the required bracing.
[F20,F22-OH4] Applies where panel-type cladding is installed to provide the required bracing of walls that support floors.
(2) [F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3]
(3) [F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F20-OS2.3]
(4) [F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F20-OS2.1,OS2.3]
9.27.5.2. Blocking
(1) [F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies where panel-type cladding is installed to provide the required bracing.
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.3,OP2.4] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.4,OP2.5] Applies where panel-type cladding is installed to provide the required bracing.
9.27.5.3. Furring
9.27.5.6. Expansion and Contraction
(1) [F21-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F21-OS2.3]
9.27.5.7. Penetration of Fasteners
(1) [F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F20-OS2.1,OS2.3]
(2) [F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies where panel-type cladding is installed to provide the required bracing.
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.3,OP2.4] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.4,OP2.5] Applies where panel-type cladding is installed to provide the required bracing.
9.27.6.1. Materials
(1) [F61,F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F62,F20-OS2.3]
9.27.6.2. Thickness and Width
(1) [F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F20-OS2.3]
(2) [F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F20-OS2.3]
(3) [F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F20-OS2.3]
(1)
[F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
9-312
Division B
Amended Page
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
(1)
[F80-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F80-OS2.3]
[F80-OS2.3,OS2.4] Applies where panel-type cladding is installed to provide the required bracing.
[F80-OP2.1,OP2.3,OP2.4,OP2.5] Applies where panel-type cladding is installed to provide the required bracing.
     (3)
   [F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies where furring is used for the attachment of panel-type cladding installed to provide the required bracing.
  [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3]
[F20-OS2.1,OS2.3,OS2.4] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.4,OS2.5] Applies where furring is used for the attachment of panel-type cladding installed to provide the required bracing.
    [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3]
[F20-OS2.1,OS2.3,OS2.4] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.4,OS2.5] Applies where panel-type cladding is installed to provide the required bracing.
         [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3]
[F20-OS2.1,OS2.3,OS2.4] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.4,OS2.5] Applies where panel-type cladding is installed to provide the required bracing.
    [F20,F22-OS3.1] Applies where panel-type cladding is installed to provide the required bracing of walls that support floors.
[F20,F22-OS3.7] Applies where panel-type cladding is installed to provide required bracing of walls that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
                     [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3]
[F20-OS2.1,OS2.3,OS2.4] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.4,OS2.5] Applies where panel-type cladding is installed to provide the required bracing.
       [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3]
[F20-OS2.1,OS2.3,OS2.4] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.4,OS2.5] Applies where panel-type cladding is installed to provide the required bracing.
          [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3]
[F20-OS2.1,OS2.3,OS2.4] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.4,OS2.5] Applies where furring is used for the attachment of panel-type cladding installed to provide the required bracing.
  (2)
   [F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies where furring is used for the attachment of panel-type cladding installed to provide the required bracing.
  [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3]
[F20-OS2.1,OS2.3,OS2.4] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.4,OS2.5] Applies where furring is used for the attachment of panel-type cladding installed to provide the required bracing.
          © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
9.37.1.1.
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.27.6.3. Joints
(1) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
(2) [F21,F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F21,F61-OS2.3]
9.27.7.1. Materials
(1) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
(2) [F61,F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61,F20-OS2.3]
(3) [F61,F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61,F20-OS2.3]
9.27.7.2. Width
(1) [F61,F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61,F20-OS2.3]
9.27.7.3. Fasteners
(1) [F61,F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61,F20-OS2.3]
9.27.7.4. Offsetting of Joints
(1) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
(2) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
9.27.7.5. Fastening to Lath
(1) [F81-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F81-OS2.3]
(2) [F62-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F62-OS2.3]
(3) [F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F20-OS2.3]
(4) [F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F20-OS2.3]
(5) [F62-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F62-OS2.3]
9.27.7.6. Exposure and Thickness
(1) [F62,F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F62,F20-OS2.3]
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.27.8.1. Material Standards
(1) [F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.3,OP2.4] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.4,OP2.5] Applies where panel-type cladding is installed to provide the required bracing.
9.27.8.2. Thickness
(1) [F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
(2) [F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.3] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.4,OP2.5] Applies where panel-type cladding is installed to provide the required bracing.
9.27.8.3. Edge Treatment
(1) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F61-OS2.3]
[F61-OS2.3,OS2.4,OS2.5] Applies where panel-type cladding is installed to provide the required bracing.
[F61-OP2.3,OP2.4,OP2.5] Applies where panel-type cladding is installed to provide the required bracing.
9.27.8.4. Panel Cladding
(1) [F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.3,OP2.4] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.4,OP2.5] Applies where panel-type cladding is installed to provide the required bracing.
(2) [F21-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F21-OS2.3]
(3) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
(4) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
9.27.8.5. Lapped Strip Siding
(1) [F21,F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F21,F61-OS2.3]
(2) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Division B
9-313
           [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3]
[F20-OS2.1,OS2.3,OS2.4] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.4,OS2.5] Applies where panel-type cladding is installed to provide the required bracing.
              [F20,F22-OS2.1,OS2.3]
[F20-OS2.1,OS2.3,OS2.4] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.4,OS2.5] Applies where panel-type cladding is installed to provide the required bracing.
        [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3]
[F20-OS2.1,OS2.3,OS2.4] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.4,OS2.5] Applies where panel-type cladding is installed to provide the required bracing.
                         [F20,F22-OS2.1,OS2.3]
[F20-OS2.1,OS2.3,OS2.4] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.4,OS2.5] Applies where panel-type cladding is installed to provide the required bracing.
                        © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 9.37.1.1.
Division B
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
(3) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
9.27.9.1. Material Standards
(1) [F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
(2) [F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F20-OS2.1,OS2.3]
[F22-OS2.3,OS2.4,OS2.5] Applies where panel-type cladding is installed to provide the required bracing.
9.27.9.2. Thickness
(1) [F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.3,OP2.4] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.4,OP2.5] Applies where panel-type cladding is installed to provide the required bracing.
(2) [F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
(3) [F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.3,OP2.4] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.4,OP2.5] Applies where panel-type cladding is installed to provide the required bracing.
9.27.9.3. Panel Cladding
(1) [F20,F21,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.3,OP2.4] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.4,OP2.5] Applies where panel-type cladding is installed to provide the required bracing.
(2) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
(3) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
9.27.9.4. Lapped Strip Siding
(1) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
(2) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
9.27.9.5. Clearance
(1) [F21-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F21-OS2.1,OS2.3]
[F21-OS2.1,OS2.3,OS2.4,OS2.5] Applies where panel-type cladding is installed to provide the required bracing.
[F21-OP2.1,OP2.3,OP2.4,OP2.5] Applies where panel-type cladding is installed to provide the required bracing.
9.27.10.1. Material Standard
(1) [F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
9.27.10.2. Thickness
(1) [F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
(2) [F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.3,OP2.4] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.4,OP2.5] Applies where panel-type cladding is installed to provide the required bracing.
(3) [F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
(4) [F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.3,OP2.4] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.4,OP2.5] Applies where panel-type cladding is installed to provide the required bracing.
9.27.10.3. Panel Cladding
(1) [F20,F22,F80-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
(2) [F21-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F21-OS2.3]
9-314 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
             [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3]
[F20-OS2.1,OS2.3,OS2.4] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.4,OS2.5] Applies where panel-type cladding is installed to provide the required bracing.
           [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3]
[F20-OS2.1,OS2.3,OS2.4] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.4,OS2.5] Applies where panel-type cladding is installed to provide the required bracing.
      [F20,F22-OS2.1,OS2.3]
[F20-OS2.1,OS2.3,OS2.4] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.4,OS2.5] Applies where panel-type cladding is installed to provide the required bracing.
       [F20,F22-OS2.1,OS2.3]
[F20-OS2.1,OS2.3,OS2.4] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.4,OS2.5] Applies where panel-type cladding is installed to provide the required bracing.
      [F20,F22-OS2.1,OS2.3]
[F20-OS2.1,OS2.3,OS2.4] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.4,OS2.5] Applies where panel-type cladding is installed to provide the required bracing.
    [F20,F22-OS2.1,OS2.3]
[F20-OS2.1,OS2.3,OS2.4] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.4,OS2.5] Applies where panel-type cladding is installed to provide the required bracing.
      [F20,F22-OS2.1,OS2.3]
[F20-OS2.1,OS2.3,OS2.4] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.4,OS2.5] Applies where panel-type cladding is installed to provide the required bracing.
     [F20,F22-OS2.1,OS2.3]
[F20-OS2.1,OS2.3,OS2.4] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.4,OS2.5] Applies where panel-type cladding is installed to provide the required bracing.
        [F20,F22-OS2.1,OS2.3]
[F20-OS2.1,OS2.3,OS2.4] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.4,OS2.5] Applies where panel-type cladding is installed to provide the required bracing.
    [F20,F21,F22-OS2.1,OS2.3]
[F20-OS2.1,OS2.3,OS2.4] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.4,OS2.5] Applies where panel-type cladding is installed to provide the required bracing.
         [F20,F22,F80-OS2.1,OS2.3]
[F20,F80-OS2.1,OS2.3,OS2.4] [F22,F80-OS2.3,OS2.4,OS2.5] Applies where panel-type cladding is installed to provide the required bracing.
          © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
9.37.1.1.
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
(3) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
(4) [F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F61-OS2.3]
9.27.10.4. Clearance
(1) [F21-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F21-OS2.1,OS2.3]
[F21-OS2.1,OS2.3,OS2.4,OS2.5] Applies where panel-type cladding is installed to provide the required bracing.
[F21-OP2.1,OP2.3,OP2.4,OP2.5] Applies where panel-type cladding is installed to provide the required bracing.
9.27.11.1. Material Standards
(1) [F20,F22,F61,F62-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3] [F22,F61,F62-OS2.3]
(2) [F20,F22,F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
(3) [F20,F22,F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3] [F22,F61-OS2.3]
(4) [F20,F22,F61-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
9.27.12.1. Material Standard
(1) [F62,F61,F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F62,F61,F20-OS2.3]
9.27.13.2. Materials
(1) [F20,F61,F62-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F20,F61,F62-OS2.3]
(2) [F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F20,F22-OS2.3]
9.27.13.3. Design and Installation
(1) [F20,F61,F62-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F20,F61,F62-OS2.3]
9.28.1.1. Sheathing beneath Stucco
(1) [F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F20,F22-OS2.3]
9.28.1.2. Lath and Reinforcing
(1) [F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F20-OS2.3]
(2) [F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F20-OS2.3]
(3)
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
[F20,F21-OS1.1] [F20,F21-OS2.3] [F20,F21-OS3.4] [F20,F21-OP1.1] [F20,F21-OH1.1]
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Amended Page
Division B
9-315
9.28.1.3. Concrete Masonry Units
(1) [F80-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F80-OS2.3]
[F80-OS1.1] Applies where stucco is applied to masonry chimneys.
[F80-OS3.4] Applies where stucco is applied to masonry chimneys.
[F80-OP1.1] Applies where stucco is applied to masonry chimneys.
9.28.1.4. Clearance over Ground Level
(1) [F80-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F80-OS2.3]
9.28.1.5. Flashing and Caulking
(1) [F80-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to the separation of aluminum flashing from stucco.
[F80-OS2.3] Applies to the separation of aluminum flashing from stucco.
9.28.2.1. Portland Cement
(1) [F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F20-OS2.3]
[F20-OS1.1] Applies where stucco is applied to masonry chimneys.
[F20-OS3.4] Applies where stucco is applied to masonry chimneys.
[F20-OP1.1] Applies where stucco is applied to masonry chimneys.
9.28.2.2. Aggregate
(1) [F80-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F80-OS2.3]
[F80-OS1.1] Applies where stucco is applied to masonry chimneys.
[F80-OS3.4] Applies where stucco is applied to masonry chimneys.
[F80-OP1.1] Applies where stucco is applied to masonry chimneys.
                              [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3] [F22,F61-OS2.3] [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3,OS2.4] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.4,OS2.5] Applies where panel-type cladding is installed to provide the required bracing.
           [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3] [F22,F61-OS2.3] [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3,OS2.4] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.4,OS2.5] Applies where panel-type cladding is installed to provide the required bracing.
                                  © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 9.37.1.1.
Division B
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
(2) [F20,F80-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F20,F80-OS2.3]
[F20,F80-OS1.1] Applies where stucco is applied to masonry chimneys.
[F20,F80-OS3.4] Applies where stucco is applied to masonry chimneys.
[F20,F80-OP1.1] Applies where stucco is applied to masonry chimneys.
9.28.2.3. Water
(1) [F80-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F80-OS2.3]
[F80-OS1.1] chimneys.
[F80-OS3.4] chimneys.
[F80-OP1.1] chimneys.
9.28.3.1. Materials
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.28.4.1. Materials
Applies where stucco is applied to masonry Applies where stucco is applied to masonry Applies where stucco is applied to masonry
(1) [F80-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F80-OS2.3]
[F80-OS1.1] Applies where stucco is applied to masonry chimneys.
[F80-OS3.4] Applies where stucco is applied to masonry chimneys.
[F80-OP1.1] Applies where stucco is applied to masonry chimneys.
9.28.3.2. Nails and Staples
(1) [F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F20-OS2.3]
[F20-OS1.1] Applies where stucco is applied to masonry chimneys.
[F20-OS3.4] Applies where stucco is applied to masonry chimneys.
[F20-OP1.1] Applies where stucco is applied to masonry chimneys.
(2) [F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F20-OS2.3]
(3) [F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F20-OS2.3]
[F20-OS1.1] Applies where stucco is applied to masonry chimneys.
[F20-OS3.4] Applies where stucco is applied to masonry chimneys.
[F20-OP1.1] Applies where stucco is applied to masonry chimneys.
(4) [F20-OS2.1]
9.28.4.2. No Sheathing Required
(1) [F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F20-OS2.3]
9.28.4.3. Stucco Lath Specifications
(1) [F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F20-OS2.3]
[F20-OS1.1] Applies where stucco is applied to chimneys.
[F20-OS3.4] Applies where stucco is applied to chimneys.
[F20-OP1.1] Applies where stucco is applied to chimneys.
9.28.4.4. Self-Furring Devices
(1) [F20,F80-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F20,F80-OS2.3]
9-316 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
(1)
(2)
[F80-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F80-OS2.3]
[F80-OS1.1] Applies where stucco is applied to chimneys.
[F80-OS3.4] Applies where stucco is applied to chimneys.
[F80-OP1.1] Applies where stucco is applied to chimneys.
[F80-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F80-OS2.3]
[F80-OS1.1] Applies where stucco is applied to chimneys.
[F80-OS3.4] Applies where stucco is applied to chimneys.
[F80-OP1.1] Applies where stucco is applied to chimneys.
masonry masonry masonry
masonry masonry masonry
masonry masonry masonry
[F20,F80-OS1.1] Applies where stucco is applied to masonry chimneys.
[F20,F80-OS3.4] Applies where stucco is applied to masonry chimneys.
[F20,F80-OP1.1] Applies where stucco is applied to masonry chimneys.
9.28.4.5. Application of Stucco Lath
(1) [F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F20-OS2.3]
[F20-OS1.1] Applies where stucco is applied to masonry chimneys.
[F20-OS3.4] Applies where stucco is applied to masonry chimneys.
[F20-OP1.1] Applies where stucco is applied to masonry chimneys.
                                                                   © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
9.37.1.1.
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
(2) [F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F20-OS2.3]
[F20-OS1.1] Applies where stucco is applied to chimneys.
[F20-OS3.4] Applies where stucco is applied to chimneys.
[F20-OP1.1] Applies where stucco is applied to chimneys.
(3) [F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F20-OS2.3]
(4) [F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F20-OS2.3]
[F20-OS1.1] Applies where stucco is applied to chimneys.
[F20-OS3.4] Applies where stucco is applied to chimneys.
[F20-OP1.1] Applies where stucco is applied to chimneys.
9.28.4.6. Fastening
(2) [F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F20-OS2.3]
[F20-OS1.1] Applies where stucco is applied to chimneys.
[F20-OS3.4] Applies where stucco is applied to chimneys.
[F20-OP1.1] Applies where stucco is applied to chimneys.
(3) [F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F20-OS2.3]
[F20-OS1.1] Applies where stucco is applied to chimneys.
[F20-OS3.4] Applies where stucco is applied to chimneys.
[F20-OP1.1] Applies where stucco is applied to chimneys.
(4) [F20-OS2.1]
9.28.5.1. Mixes
(1) [F20,F61,F80-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F20,F61,F80-OS2.3]
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
[F20,F61,F80-OS1.1] Applies where stucco is applied to masonry chimneys.
[F20,F61,F80-OS3.4] Applies where stucco is applied to masonry chimneys.
[F20,F61,F80-OP1.1] Applies where stucco is applied to masonry chimneys.
(1) [F20,F80-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F20,F80-OS2.3]
[F20,F80-OS1.1] Applies where chimneys.
[F20,F80-OS3.4] Applies where chimneys.
[F20,F80-OP1.1] Applies where chimneys.
(2) [F20,F80-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F20,F80-OS2.3]
[F20,F80-OS1.1] Applies where chimneys.
[F20,F80-OS3.4] Applies where chimneys.
[F20,F80-OP1.1] Applies where chimneys.
stucco is applied to masonry stucco is applied to masonry stucco is applied to masonry
stucco is applied to masonry stucco is applied to masonry stucco is applied to masonry
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Division B 9-317
masonry masonry masonry
masonry masonry masonry
masonry masonry masonry
masonry masonry masonry
(1)
(2)
[F20,F80-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F20,F80-OS2.3]
[F20,F80-OS1.1] Applies where chimneys.
[F20,F80-OS3.4] Applies where chimneys.
[F20,F80-OP1.1] Applies where chimneys.
[F20,F80-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F20,F80-OS2.3]
stucco is applied to masonry stucco is applied to masonry stucco is applied to masonry
stucco is applied to masonry stucco is applied to masonry stucco is applied to masonry
stucco is applied to masonry stucco is applied to masonry stucco is applied to masonry
9.28.5.2. Pigments
9.28.5.3. Mixing
(1)
(2)
[F20,F80-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F20,F80-OS2.3]
[F20,F80-OS1.1] Applies where chimneys.
[F20,F80-OS3.4] Applies where chimneys.
[F20,F80-OP1.1] Applies where chimneys.
[F20,F80-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F20,F80-OS2.3]
[F20,F80-OS1.1] Applies where chimneys.
[F20,F80-OS3.4] Applies where chimneys.
[F20,F80-OP1.1] Applies where chimneys.
9.28.6.1. Low Temperature Conditions
                                                                © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 9.37.1.1.
Division B
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.28.6.2. Number of Coats and Total Thickness
(1) [F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F20-OS2.3]
[F20-OS1.1] Applies where stucco is applied to chimneys.
[F20-OS3.4] Applies where stucco is applied to chimneys.
[F20-OP1.1] Applies where stucco is applied to chimneys.
9.28.6.3. First Coat
(1) [F20,F80-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F20,F80-OS2.3]
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.28.6.5. Finish Coat
[F20,F80-OS1.1] Applies where stucco is applied to masonry chimneys.
[F20,F80-OS3.4] Applies where stucco is applied to masonry chimneys.
[F20,F80-OP1.1] Applies where stucco is applied to masonry chimneys.
(2) [F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F20-OS2.3]
[F20-OS1.1] Applies where stucco is applied to masonry chimneys.
[F20-OS3.4] Applies where stucco is applied to masonry chimneys.
[F20-OP1.1] Applies where stucco is applied to masonry chimneys.
9.28.6.4. Second Coat
(1) [F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F20-OS2.3]
[F20-OS1.1] Applies where stucco is applied to masonry chimneys.
[F20-OS3.4] Applies where stucco is applied to masonry chimneys.
[F20-OP1.1] Applies where stucco is applied to masonry chimneys.
(2) [F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] [F20-OS2.3]
[F20-OS1.1] Applies where stucco is applied to masonry chimneys.
[F20-OS3.4] Applies where stucco is applied to masonry chimneys.
[F20-OP1.1] Applies where stucco is applied to masonry chimneys.
9.29.2.1. Where Required
masonry masonry masonry
(1)
(2)
(3)
[F80-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F80-OS2.3]
[F80-OS1.1] Applies where stucco is applied to chimneys.
[F80-OS3.4] Applies where stucco is applied to chimneys.
[F80-OP1.1] Applies where stucco is applied to chimneys.
[F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F20-OS2.3]
[F20-OS1.1] Applies where stucco is applied to chimneys.
[F20-OS3.4] Applies where stucco is applied to chimneys.
[F20-OP1.1] Applies where stucco is applied to chimneys.
[F80-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F80-OS2.3]
[F80-OS1.1] Applies where stucco is applied to chimneys.
[F80-OS3.4] Applies where stucco is applied to chimneys.
[F80-OP1.1] Applies where stucco is applied to chimneys.
masonry masonry masonry
masonry masonry masonry
masonry masonry masonry
9-318 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
(1) [F80,F81-OH1.1,OH1.2] Applies where interior finishes support or serve as required environmental separation elements.
[F80,F81-OS2.3]
[F80,F81-OS1.2] Applies where interior finishes are required to act as fire protection for foamed plastics or to contribute to the required fire resistance of assemblies.
[F80,F81-OP2.3,OP2.4]
9.29.2.2. Materials
(1)
[F80,F81-OH1.1,OH1.2] Applies where interior finishes support or serve as required environmental separation elements.
[F80-OS2.3]
[F80-OS1.2] Applies where interior finishes are required to act as fire protection for foamed plastics or to contribute to the required fire resistance of assemblies.
[F80-OP2.3,OP2.4]
                                                          © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
9.37.1.1.
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.29.3.1. Size and Spacing of Furring
(1) [F20,F22-OS2.1]
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2] Applies where interior finishes support or serve as required environmental separation elements.
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies where interior finishes are required to act as fire protection for foamed plastics or to contribute to the required fire resistance of assemblies.
[F20,F22-OP2.1,OP2.4]
9.29.3.2. Fastening
(1) [F20-OS2.1]
[F20-OS1.2] Applies where interior finishes are required to act as fire protection for foamed plastics or to contribute to the required fire resistance of assemblies.
[F20-OH1.1,OH1.2] Applies where interior finishes support or serve as required environmental separation elements.
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.4]
9.29.4.1. Application
(1) [F20,F80-OS2.1,OS2.3]
[F20,F22,F80,F81-OH1.1,OH1.2] Applies where interior finishes support or serve as required environmental separation elements.
[F20,F80-OS1.2] Applies where interior finishes are required to act as fire protection for foamed plastics or to contribute to the required fire resistance of assemblies.
[F20,F80-OP2.1,OP2.3] [F22,F80-OP2.4]
9.29.5.1. Application
(2) [F20,F80-OS2.1,OS2.3]
[F20,F22,F80,F81-OH1.1,OH1.2] Applies where interior finishes support or serve as required environmental separation elements.
[F20,F22,F80-OS1.2] Applies where interior finishes are required to act as fire protection for foamed plastics or to contribute to the required fire resistance of assemblies.
[F20,F80-OP2.1,OP2.3] [F22,F80-OP2.4]
9.29.5.2. Materials
(1) [F20,F80-OP2.1,OP2.3] [F22,F80-OP2.4] [F20,F80-OS2.1,OS2.3]
[F20,F22,F80-OS1.2] Applies where interior finishes are required to act as fire protection for foamed plastics or to contribute to the required fire resistance of assemblies.
[F20,F22,F80,F81-OH1.1,OH1.2] Applies where interior finishes support or serve as required environmental separation elements.
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.29.5.3. Maximum Spacing of Supports
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-319
(1)
[F20-OS2.1]
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies where interior finishes are required to act as fire protection for foamed plastics or to contribute to the required fire resistance of assemblies.
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2] Applies where interior finishes support or serve as required environmental separation elements.
[F20-OP2.1] [F20,F22-OP2.4]
9.29.5.4. Support of Insulation
(1) [F20-OS2.1]
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2] Applies where interior finishes support or serve as required environmental separation elements.
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies where interior finishes are required to act as fire protection for foamed plastics or to contribute to the required fire resistance of assemblies.
[F20-OP2.1] [F20,F22-OP2.4]
9.29.5.5. Length of Fasteners
(1) [F20-OS2.1]
[F20-OS1.2] Applies where interior finishes are required to act as fire protection for foamed plastics or to contribute to the required fire resistance of assemblies.
[F20-OH1.1,OH1.2] Applies where interior finishes support or serve as required environmental separation elements.
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.4]
9.29.5.6. Nails
(1) [F20-OS2.1]
[F20-OS1.2] Applies where interior finishes are required to act as fire protection for foamed plastics or to contribute to the required fire resistance of assemblies.
[F20-OH1.1,OH1.2] Applies where interior finishes support or serve as required environmental separation elements.
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.4]
9.29.5.7. Screws
(1) [F20-OS2.1]
[F20-OS1.2] Applies where interior finishes are required to act as fire protection for foamed plastics or to contribute to the required fire resistance of assemblies.
[F20-OH1.1,OH1.2] Applies where interior finishes support or serve as required environmental separation elements.
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.4]
                                                      © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 9.37.1.1.
Division B
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.29.5.8. Spacing of Nails
(1) [F20-OP2.1]
[F20-OP2.3] Applies where interior finishes support or serve as required environmental separation elements.
[F20-OS2.1]
[F20-OS2.3] Applies where interior finishes support or serve as required environmental separation elements.
[F20-OH1.1,OH1.2] Applies where interior finishes support or serve as required environmental separation elements.
[F20-OS1.2] Applies where interior finishes are required to act as fire protection for foamed plastics or to contribute to the required fire resistance of assemblies.
[F20-OP1.2] Applies where interior finishes are required to act as fire protection for foamed plastics or to contribute to the required fire resistance of assemblies.
(3) [F20-OS2.1]
[F20-OS2.3] Applies where interior finishes support or serve as required environmental separation elements.
[F20-OP2.1]
[F20-OP2.3] Applies where interior finishes support or serve as required environmental separation elements.
[F20-OH1.1,OH1.2] Applies where interior finishes support or serve as required environmental separation elements.
(4)
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
[F20-OS1.2] Applies where interior finishes are required to act as fire protection for foamed plastics or contribute to the required fire resistance of assemblies.
[F20-OP3.1] Applies where interior finishes are installed to contribute to the required fire resistance of exterior walls.
[F20-OP1.2] Applies where interior finishes are required to act as fire protection for foamed plastics or contribute to the required fire resistance of assemblies.
9-320 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
(5)
[F20-OS1.2] Applies where interior finishes are required to act as fire protection for foamed plastics or to contribute to the required fire resistance of assemblies.
[F20-OP1.2] Applies where interior finishes are required to act as fire protection for foamed plastics or to contribute to the required fire resistance of assemblies.
[F20-OP3.1] Applies where interior finishes are installed to contribute to the required fire resistance of exterior walls.
      [F20-OS2.1]
[F20-OS2.5] [F22-OS2.4,OS2.5] Applies where interior finishes contribute to the required bracing or lateral support for studs.
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies where interior finishes support or serve as required environmental separation elements.
   [F20-OP2.1]
[F20-OP2.5] [F22-OP2.4,OP2.5] Applies where interior finishes contribute to the required bracing or lateral support for studs.
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies where interior finishes support or serve as required environmental separation elements.
   [F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies where interior finishes contribute to the required bracing or lateral support for
studs, or where interior finishes support or serve as required environmental separation elements.
   [F20-OH4] Applies where walls support floors and where interior finishes contribute to the required bracing or lateral support for studs or where interior finishes support or serve as required environmental separation elements.
   [F20-OS3.1,OS3.7] Applies where walls support floors and where interior finishes contribute to the required bracing or lateral support for studs or where interior finishes support or serve as required environmental separation elements.
                [F20-OS2.1]
[F20-OS2.5] [F22-OS2.4,OS2.5] Applies where interior finishes contribute to the required bracing or lateral support for studs.
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies where interior finishes support or serve as required environmental separation elements.
   [F20-OP2.1]
[F20-OP2.5] [F22-OP2.4,OP2.5] Applies where interior finishes contribute to the required bracing or lateral support for studs.
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies where interior finishes support or serve as required environmental separation elements.
   [F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies where interior finishes contribute to the required bracing or lateral support for
studs, or where interior finishes support or serve as required environmental separation elements.
         [F20,F22-OH4] Applies where walls support floors and where interior finishes contribute to the required bracing or lateral support for studs or where interior finishes support or serve as required environmental separation elements.
   [F20,F22-OS3.1,OS3.7] Applies where walls support floors and where interior finishes contribute to the required bracing or lateral support for studs or where interior finishes support or serve as required environmental separation elements.
     © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
9.37.1.1.
(6)
(7)
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
[F20-OS1.2] Applies where interior finishes are required to act as fire protection for foamed plastics or to contribute to the required fire resistance of assemblies.
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies where interior finishes support or serve as required environmental separation elements.
[F20-OP1.2] Applies where interior finishes are required to act as fire protection for foamed plastics or to contribute to the required fire resistance of assemblies.
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-321
[F20-OS1.2] Applies where interior finishes are required to act as fire protection for foamed plastics or to contribute to the required fire resistance of assemblies.
[F20-OP1.2] Applies where interior finishes are required to act as fire protection for foamed plastics or to contribute to the required fire resistance of assemblies.
[F20-OP3.1] Applies where interior finishes are installed to contribute to the required fire resistance of exterior walls.
9.29.5.9. Spacing of Screws
(1) [F20-OS2.1]
[F20-OS2.3] Applies where interior finishes support or serve as required environmental separation elements.
[F20-OP2.1]
[F20-OP2.3] Applies where interior finishes support or serve as required environmental separation elements.
[F20-OH1.1,OH1.2] Applies where interior finishes support or serve as required environmental separation elements.
[F20-OS1.2] Applies where interior finishes are required to act as fire protection for foamed plastics or to contribute to the required fire resistance of assemblies.
[F20-OP1.2] Applies where interior finishes are required to act as fire protection for foamed plastics or to contribute to the required fire resistance of assemblies.
     [F20-OS2.1]
[F20-OS2.5] [F22-OS2.4,OS2.5] Applies where interior finishes contribute to the required bracing or lateral support for studs.
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies where interior finishes support or serve as required environmental separation elements.
    [F20-OS2.1]
[F20-OS2.5] [F22-OS2.4,OS2.5] Applies where interior finishes contribute to the required bracing or lateral support for studs.
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies where interior finishes support or serve as required environmental separation elements.
   [F20-OP2.1]
[F20-OP2.5] [F22-OP2.4,OP2.5] Applies where interior finishes contribute to the required bracing or lateral support for studs.
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies where interior finishes support or serve as required environmental separation elements.
   [F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies where interior finishes contribute to the required bracing or lateral support for
studs, or where interior finishes support or serve as required environmental separation elements.
   [F20-OH4] Applies where walls support floors and where interior finishes contribute to the required bracing or lateral support for studs or where interior finishes support or serve as required environmental separation elements.
   [F20-OS3.1,OS3.7] Applies where walls support floors and where interior finishes contribute to the required bracing or lateral support for studs or where interior finishes support or serve as required environmental separation elements.
        [F20-OP2.1]
[F20-OP2.5] [F22-OP2.4,OP2.5] Applies where interior finishes contribute to the required bracing or lateral support for studs.
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies where interior finishes support or serve as required environmental separation elements.
   [F20-OH4] Applies where walls support floors and where interior finishes contribute to the required bracing or lateral support for studs or where interior finishes support or serve as required environmental separation elements.
       [F20-OS3.1,OS3.7] Applies where walls support floors and where interior finishes contribute to the required bracing or lateral support for studs or where interior finishes support or serve as required environmental separation elements.
           © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 9.37.1.1.
Division B
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
(3) [F20-OS2.1]
[F20-OS2.3] Applies where interior finishes support or serve as required environmental separation elements.
[F20-OP2.1]
[F20-OP2.3] Applies where interior finishes support or serve as required environmental separation elements.
[F20-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies where interior finishes support or serve as required environmental separation elements.
[F20-OS1.2] Applies where gypsum board is required to provide the fire resistance and the rating of the assembly is determined according to Table 9.10.3.1.-A.
[F20-OP1.2] Applies where gypsum board is required to provide the fire resistance and the rating of the assembly is determined according to Table 9.10.3.1.-A.
[F20-OP3.1] Applies where interior finishes are installed to contribute to the required fire resistance of exterior walls.
(4)
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
[F20-OS1.2] Applies where interior finishes are required to act as fire protection for foamed plastics or contribute to the required fire resistance of assemblies.
[F20-OP3.1] Applies where interior finishes are installed to contribute to the required fire resistance of exterior walls.
[F20-OP1.2] Applies where interior finishes are required to act as fire protection for foamed plastics or to contribute to the required fire resistance of assemblies.
9-322 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
(6)
[F20-OS1.2] Applies where interior finishes are required to act as fire protection for foamed plastics or to contribute to the required fire resistance of assemblies.
[F20-OP1.2] Applies where interior finishes are required to act as fire protection for foamed plastics or to contribute to the required fire resistance of assemblies.
[F20-OP3.1] Applies where interior finishes are installed to contribute to the required fire resistance of exterior walls.
      [F20-OS2.1]
[F20-OS2.5] [F22-OS2.4,OS2.5] Applies where interior finishes contribute to the required bracing or lateral support for studs.
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies where interior finishes support or serve as required environmental separation elements.
   [F20-OP2.1]
[F20-OP2.5] [F22-OP2.4,OP2.5] Applies where interior finishes contribute to the required bracing or lateral support for studs.
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies where interior finishes support or serve as required environmental separation elements.
   [F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies where interior finishes contribute to the required bracing or lateral support for
studs, or where interior finishes support or serve as required environmental separation elements.
   [F20-OH4] Applies where walls support floors and where interior finishes contribute to the required bracing or lateral support for studs or where interior finishes support or serve as required environmental separation elements.
   [F20-OS3.1,OS3.7] Applies where walls support floors and where interior finishes contribute to the required bracing or lateral support for studs or where interior finishes support or serve as required environmental separation elements.
            [F20-OS2.1]
[F20-OS2.5] [F22-OS2.4,OS2.5] Applies where interior finishes contribute to the required bracing or lateral support for studs.
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies where interior finishes support or serve as required environmental separation elements.
   [F20-OP2.1]
[F20-OP2.5] [F22-OP2.4,OP2.5] Applies where interior finishes contribute to the required bracing or lateral support for studs.
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies where interior finishes support or serve as required environmental separation elements.
   [F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies where interior finishes contribute to the required bracing or lateral support for
studs, or where interior finishes support or serve as required environmental separation elements.
           [F20,F22-OS3.1,OS3.7] Applies where the walls support floors and where interior finishes contribute to the required bracing or lateral support for studs or where interior finishes support or serve as required environmental separation elements.
   [F20,F22-OH4] Applies where the walls support floors and where interior finishes contribute to the required bracing or lateral support for studs or where interior finishes support or serve as required environmental separation elements.
    © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
9.37.1.1.
(7)
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.29.6.3. Nails and Staples
(1) [F20-OS2.1]
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies where interior finishes are required to act as fire protection for foamed plastics or to contribute to the required fire resistance of assemblies.
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2] Applies where interior finishes support or serve as required environmental separation elements.
[F20-OP2.1] [F20,F22-OP2.4]
(2) [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3,OS2.5] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.4,OS2.5]
[F20-OP2.1,OP2.3,OP2.5] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22-OS3.1] Applies to walls that support floors. [F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
[F20,F22-OH4] Applies to walls that support floors.
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
9.29.6.4. Edge Support
(1) [F20-OS2.1]
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies where interior finishes are required to act as fire protection for foamed plastics or to contribute to the required fire resistance of assemblies.
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2] Applies where interior finishes support or serve as required environmental separation elements.
[F20-OP2.1] [F20,F22-OP2.4]
9.29.7.1. Material Standard
(1) [F20,F80-OS2.1,OS2.3]
[F20,F22,F80-OS1.2] Applies where interior finishes are required to act as fire protection for foamed plastics or to contribute to the required fire resistance of assemblies.
[F20,F22,F80,F81-OH1.1,OH1.2] Applies where interior finishes support or serve as required environmental separation elements.
[F20,F80-OP2.1,OP2.3] [F22,F80-OP2.4]
9.29.7.2. Thickness
(1) [F20-OS2.1]
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies where interior finishes are required to act as fire protection for foamed plastics or to contribute to the required fire resistance of assemblies.
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2] Applies where interior finishes support or serve as required environmental separation elements.
[F20-OP2.1] [F20,F22-OP2.4]
[F20-OS1.2] Applies where interior finishes are required to act as fire protection for foamed plastics or to contribute to the required fire resistance of assemblies.
[F20-OP1.2] Applies where interior finishes are required to act as fire protection for foamed plastics or to contribute to the required fire resistance of assemblies.
[F20-OP3.1] Applies where interior finishes are installed to contribute to the required fire resistance of exterior walls.
9.29.5.10. Low Temperature Conditions
(1) [F81-OS1.2] Applies where the finishing of joints is required to maintain required fire-resistance ratings.
9.29.6.1. Thickness
(1) [F20-OS2.1]
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies where interior finishes are required to act as fire protection for foamed plastics or to contribute to the required fire resistance of assemblies.
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2] Applies where interior finishes support or serve as required environmental separation elements.
[F20-OP2.1] [F20,F22-OP2.4]
9.29.6.2. Grooved Plywood
(1) [F20-OS2.1]
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies where interior finishes are required to act as fire protection for foamed plastics or to contribute to the required fire resistance of assemblies.
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2] Applies where interior finishes support or serve as required environmental separation elements.
[F20-OP2.1] [F20,F22-OP2.4]
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Division B
9-323
     [F20-OS2.1]
[F20-OS2.5] [F22-OS2.4,OS2.5] Applies where interior finishes contribute to the required bracing or lateral support for studs.
[F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies where interior finishes support or serve as required environmental separation elements.
   [F20-OP2.1]
[F20-OP2.5] [F22-OP2.4,OP2.5] Applies where interior finishes contribute to the required bracing or lateral support for studs.
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies where interior finishes support or serve as required environmental separation elements.
   [F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies where interior finishes contribute to the required bracing or lateral support for
studs, or where interior finishes support or serve as required environmental separation elements.
   [F20-OS3.1,OS3.7] Applies where walls support floors and where interior finishes contribute to the required bracing or lateral support for studs or where interior finishes support or serve as required environmental separation elements.
                    [F20-OH4] Applies where walls support floors and where interior finishes contribute to the required bracing or lateral support for studs or where interior finishes support or serve as required environmental separation elements.
                              © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 9.37.1.1.
Division B
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.29.7.3. Nails
(1) [F20-OS2.1]
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies where interior finishes are required to act as fire protection for foamed plastics or to contribute to the required fire resistance of assemblies.
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2] Applies where interior finishes support or serve as required environmental separation elements.
[F20-OP2.1] [F20,F22-OP2.4]
9.29.7.4. Edge Support
(1) [F20-OS2.1]
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2] Applies where interior finishes support or serve as required environmental separation elements.
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies where interior finishes are required to act as fire protection for foamed plastics or to contribute to the required fire resistance of assemblies.
[F20-OP2.1] [F20,F22-OP2.4]
9.29.8.1. Material Standard
(1) [F20,F80-OS2.1,OS2.3]
[F20,F22,F80-OS1.2] Applies where interior finishes are required to act as fire protection for foamed plastics or to contribute to the required fire resistance of assemblies.
[F20,F22,F80,F81-OH1.1,OH1.2] Applies where interior finishes support or serve as required environmental separation elements.
[F20,F80-OP2.1,OP2.3]
9.29.8.2. Thickness
(1) [F20-OS2.1]
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies where interior finishes are required to act as fire protection for foamed plastics or to contribute to the required fire resistance of assemblies.
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2] Applies where interior finishes support or serve as required environmental separation elements.
[F20-OP2.1] [F20,F22-OP2.4]
(2) [F20-OS2.1]
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies where interior finishes are required to act as fire protection for foamed plastics or to contribute to the required fire resistance of assemblies.
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2] Applies where interior finishes support or serve as required environmental separation elements.
[F20-OP2.1] [F20,F22-OP2.4]
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.29.8.3. Nails
(1) [F20-OS2.1]
[F20-OS1.2] Applies where interior finishes are required to act as fire protection for foamed plastics or to contribute to the required fire resistance of assemblies.
[F20-OH1.1,OH1.2] Applies where interior finishes support or serve as required environmental separation elements.
[F20-OP2.1] [F20-OP2.4] (2) [F20-OS2.1]
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies where interior finishes are required to act as fire protection for foamed plastics or to contribute to the required fire resistance of assemblies.
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2] Applies where interior finishes support or serve as required environmental separation elements.
[F20-OP2.1] [F20,F22-OP2.4]
9.29.8.4. Edge Support
(1) [F20-OS2.1]
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2] Applies where interior finishes support or serve as required environmental separation elements.
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies where interior finishes are required to act as fire protection for foamed plastics or to contribute to the required fire resistance of assemblies.
[F20-OP2.1] [F20,F22-OP2.4]
9.29.9.1. Material Standard
(1) [F20,F80-OS2.1,OS2.3]
[F20,F22,F80-OS1.2] Applies where interior finishes are required to act as fire protection for foamed plastics or to contribute to the required fire resistance of assemblies.
[F20,F22,F80,F81-OH1.1,OH1.2] Applies where interior finishes support or serve as required environmental separation elements.
[F20,F80-OP2.1,OP2.3] [F22,F80-OP2.4]
(2) [F20,F80-OP2.1,OP2.3] [F22,F80-OP2.4]
[F20,F80-OS2.1,OS2.3]
[F20,F22,F80-OS1.2] Applies where interior finishes are required to act as fire protection for foamed plastics or to contribute to the required fire resistance of assemblies.
[F20,F22,F80,F81-OH1.1,OH1.2] Applies where interior finishes support or serve as required environmental separation elements.
9-324 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
                                                   © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
9.37.1.1.
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.29.9.2. Minimum Thickness
(1) [F20-OS2.1]
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies where interior finishes are required to act as fire protection for foamed plastics or to contribute to the required fire resistance of assemblies.
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2] Applies where interior finishes support or serve as required environmental separation elements.
[F20-OP2.1] [F20,F22-OP2.4] (4) [F20-OS2.1]
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
(2) [F20-OS2.1,OS2.3,OS2.5] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.4,OS2.5] [F20-OP2.1,OP2.3,OP2.5] [F22-OP2.3,OP2.4,OP2.5]
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies to assemblies required to provide fire resistance.
[F22-OS3.1] Applies to walls that support floors. [F22-OS3.7] Applies to walls that contain doors or windows required for emergency egress.
[F20,F22-OH4] Applies to walls that support floors.
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies to elements that support or are part of an environmental separator.
9.29.9.4. Edge Support
(1) [F20-OS2.1]
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2] Applies where interior finishes support or serve as required environmental separation elements.
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies where interior finishes are required to act as fire protection for foamed plastics or to contribute to the required fire resistance of assemblies.
[F20-OP2.1] [F20,F22-OP2.4]
9.29.10.1. Tile Application
(1) [F20,F81-OH1.1,OH1.2] Applies where the substrate serves as a required environmental separation element.
[F20-OS1.2] Applies where the substrate is required to act as fire protection for foamed plastics or to contribute to the required fire resistance of assemblies.
(5)
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies where interior finishes are required to act as fire protection for foamed plastics or to contribute to the required fire resistance of assemblies.
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2] Applies where interior finishes support or serve as required environmental separation elements.
[F20-OP2.1] [F20,F22-OP2.4]
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies where interior finishes are required to act as fire protection for foamed plastics.
9.29.9.3. Nails
(1) [F20-OS2.1]
[F20,F22-OS1.2] Applies where interior finishes are required to act as fire protection for foamed plastics or to contribute to the required fire resistance of assemblies.
[F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2] Applies where interior finishes support or serve as required environmental separation elements.
[F20-OP2.1] [F20,F22-OP2.4]
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Division B
9-325
                        [F20-OS2.1]
[F20,F22-OS2.4,OS2.5] Applies where interior finishes contribute to the required bracing or lateral support for studs. [F20,F22-OS2.3] Applies where interior finishes support or serve as required environmental separation elements.
   [F20-OP2.1]
[F20-OP2.5] [F22-OP2.4,OP2.5] Applies where interior finishes contribute to the required bracing or lateral support for studs.
[F20,F22-OP2.3] Applies where interior finishes support or serve as required environmental separation elements.
   [F20,F22-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3] Applies where interior finishes support or serve as required environmental separation elements, or where interior finishes contribute to the required bracing of exterior walls.
         [F20-OS2.1]
[F20-OS2.5] [F22-OS2.4,OS2.5] Applies where the substrate for the tile contributes to the required bracing or lateral support for studs.
[F20-OS2.3] Applies where the substrate for the tile serves as a required environmental separation element or where the tile is installed to provide the required waterproof wall finish.
     [F20-OP2.1]
[F20-OP2.5] [F22-OP2.4,OP2.5] Applies where the substrate for the tile contributes to the required bracing or lateral support for studs.
[F20-OP2.3] Applies where the substrate for the tile serves as a required environmental separation element or where the tile is installed to provide the required waterproof wall finish.
        © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 9.37.1.1.
Division B
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
(2) [F20,F81-OH1.1,OH1.2] Applies where the substrate serves (2) as a required environmental separation element.
[F20-OS1.2] Applies where the substrate is required to act as fire protection for foamed plastics or to contribute to the required fire resistance of assemblies.
9.29.10.2. Mortar Base (3) (1)
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
[F20,F80-OS1.2] Applies where the substrate is required to act as fire protection for foamed plastics or to contribute to the required fire resistance of assemblies.
[F20,F80,F81-OH1.1,OH1.2] Applies where the substrate serves as a required environmental separation element.
[F20,F80-OS1.2] Applies where the substrate is required to act as fire protection for foamed plastics or to contribute to the required fire resistance of assemblies.
[F20,F80,F81-OH1.1,OH1.2] Applies where the substrate serves as a required environmental separation element.
[F20-OS1.2] Applies where the substrate is required to act as fire protection for foamed plastics or to contribute to the required fire resistance of assemblies.
[F20,F81-OH1.1,OH1.2] Applies where the substrate serves as a required environmental separation element.
9-326 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
(4)
[F20-OH1.1,OH1.2] Applies where the substrate serves as a required environmental separation element.
[F20-OS1.2] Applies where the substrate is required to act as fire protection for foamed plastics or to contribute to the required fire resistance of assemblies.
      [F20-OS2.1]
[F20-OS2.5] [F22-OS2.4,OS2.5] Applies where the substrate for the tile contributes to the required bracing or lateral support for studs.
[F20,F80-OS2.3] Applies where the substrate for the tile serves as a required environmental separation element or where the tile is installed to provide the required waterproof wall finish.
     [F20-OS2.1]
[F20-OS2.5] [F22-OS2.4,OS2.5] Applies where the substrate for the tile contributes to the required bracing or lateral support for studs.
[F20-OS2.3] Applies where the substrate for the tile serves as a required environmental separation element or where the tile is installed to provide the required waterproof wall finish.
      [F20-OP2.1]
[F20-OP2.5] [F22-OP2.4,OP2.5] Applies where the substrate for the tile contributes to the required bracing or lateral support for studs.
[F20-OP2.3] Applies where the substrate for the tile serves as a required environmental separation element or where the tile is installed to provide the required waterproof wall finish.
    [F20-OP2.1]
[F20-OP2.5] [F22-OP2.4,OP2.5] Applies where the substrate for the tile contributes to the required bracing or lateral support for studs.
[F20-OP2.3] Applies where the substrate for the tile serves as a required environmental separation element or where the tile is installed to provide the required waterproof wall finish.
  [F20-OS2.1]
[F20-OS2.5] [F22-OS2.4,OS2.5] Applies where the substrate for the tile contributes to the required bracing or lateral support for studs.
[F20-OS2.3] Applies where the substrate for the tile serves as a required environmental separation element.
      [F20-OS2.1]
[F20-OS2.5] [F22-OS2.4,OS2.5] Applies where the substrate for the tile contributes to the required bracing or lateral support for studs.
[F20,F80-OS2.3] Applies where the substrate for the tile serves as a required environmental separation element or where the tile is installed to provide the required waterproof wall finish.
       [F20-OP2.1]
[F20-OP2.5] [F22-OP2.4,OP2.5] Applies where the substrate for the tile contributes to the required bracing or lateral support for studs.
[F20-OP2.3] Applies where the substrate for the tile serves as a required environmental separation element or where the tile is installed to provide the required waterproof wall finish.
  [F20-OS2.1]
[F20-OS2.5] [F22-OS2.4,OS2.5] Applies where the substrate for the tile contributes to the required bracing or lateral support for studs.
[F20-OS2.3] Applies where the substrate for the tile serves as a required environmental separation element or where the tile is installed to provide the required waterproof wall finish.
     [F20-OP2.1]
[F20-OP2.5] [F22-OP2.4,OP2.5] Applies where the substrate for the tile contributes to the required bracing or lateral support for studs.
[F20-OP2.3] Applies where the substrate for the tile serves as a required environmental separation element or where the tile is installed to provide the required waterproof wall finish.
      [F20-OP2.1]
[F20-OP2.5] [F22-OP2.4,OP2.5] Applies where the substrate for the tile contributes to the required bracing or lateral support for studs.
[F20-OP2.3] Applies where the substrate for the tile serves as a required environmental separation element or where the tile is installed to provide the required waterproof wall finish.
  © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
9.37.1.1.
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.29.10.3. Adhesives
(1) [F20-OH1.1,OH1.2] Applies where the substrate serves as a required environmental separation element.
[F20-OS2.3]
[F20-OS1.2] Applies where the substrate is required to act as fire protection for foamed plastics or to contribute to the required fire resistance of assemblies.
[F20-OP2.3,OP2.4]
9.29.10.4. Moisture-Resistant Backing
(1) [F81-OH1.1,OH1.2] Applies where the substrate supports or serves as a required environmental separation element.
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
(3) [F81-OS3.1]
[F81-OH1.1] Applies where finished flooring is required to provide water resistance.
[F81-OS2.3] Applies where finished flooring is required to provide water resistance.
9.30.2.2. Materials and Thickness
(1) [F81-OS3.1]
[F81-OS2.3] Applies where finished flooring is required to provide water resistance.
[F81-OH1.1] Applies where finished flooring is required to provide water resistance.
(2) [F81-OS2.3] Applies where finished flooring is required to provide water resistance.
[F81-OS3.1]
[F81-OH1.1] Applies where finished flooring is required to provide water resistance.
9.30.2.3. Fastening
(1) [F81-OS3.1]
[F81-OS2.3] Applies where finished flooring is required to provide water resistance.
[F81-OH1.1] Applies where finished flooring is required to provide water resistance.
(2) [F81-OS3.1]
[F81-OS2.3] Applies where finished flooring is required to provide water resistance.
[F81-OH1.1] Applies where finished flooring is required to provide water resistance.
(3) [F81-OS3.1]
[F81-OS2.3] Applies where finished flooring is required to provide water resistance.
[F81-OH1.1] Applies where finished flooring is required to provide water resistance.
9.30.2.4. Joints Offset
(1) [F81-OS3.1]
[F81-OS2.3] Applies where finished flooring is required to provide water resistance.
[F81-OH1.1] Applies where finished flooring is required to provide water resistance.
9.30.2.5. Surface Defects
(1) [F81-OS3.1]
[F81-OS2.3] Applies where finished flooring is required to provide water resistance.
[F81-OH1.1] Applies where finished flooring is required to provide water resistance.
9.30.3.1. Thickness
(1) [F30-OS3.1] [F20-OS2.1]
[F20-OS2.3]
[F20-OS1.2] Applies where the substrate is required to act as fire protection for foamed plastics or to contribute to the required fire resistance of assemblies.
[F81-OP2.3,OP2.4]
9.29.10.5. Joints between Tiles and Bathtub
(1) [F81-OH1.1,OH1.2] Applies where the substrate serves as required environmental separation element.
[F81-OS2.3]
[F81-OS1.2] Applies where the substrate is required to act as fire protection for foamed plastics or to contribute to the required fire resistance of assemblies.
[F81-OP2.3,OP2.4]
9.30.1.1. Required Finished Flooring
(1) [F30-OS3.1] [F40,F41-OH2.4]
9.30.1.2. Water Resistance
(1) [F80-OS2.3] Applies where finished flooring is required to provide water resistance.
a
[F41,F81-OH1.1] Applies where finished flooring is required to provide water resistance.
9.30.1.3. Sleepers
(1) [F20,F80-OS3.1]
[F80-OH1.1] Applies to portion of Code text: “Wood sleepers supporting finished flooring over a concrete base supported on the ground ... shall be treated with a wood preservative.”
9.30.2.1. Required Underlay
(1) [F81-OS3.1]
[F81-OS2.3] Applies where finished flooring is required to provide water resistance.
[F81-OH1.1] Applies where finished flooring is required to provide water resistance.
(2) [F81-OS3.1]
[F81-OS2.3] Applies where finished flooring is required to provide water resistance.
[F81-OH1.1] Applies where finished flooring is required to provide water resistance.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Division B
9-327
                                                                  © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 9.37.1.1.
Division B
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.30.3.2. Strip Direction and End Joints
(1) [F30-OS3.1]
(2) [F20-OS2.1]
(3) [F20-OS2.1]
9.30.3.3. Nailing (1) [F30-OS3.1] (2) [F30-OS3.1] 9.30.3.4. Staples (1) [F30-OS3.1] 9.30.4.1. Adhesive (1) [F81-OS3.1] 9.30.5.1. Materials
(1) [F41,F80-OH1.1]
[F80-OS3.1]
(2) [F81,F80-OS3.1]
[F41-OH1.1]
9.30.6.1. Substrate
(1) [F81-OS3.1]
[F81-OH1.1] Applies where finished flooring is required to provide water resistance.
[F81-OS2.3] Applies where finished flooring is required to provide water resistance.
(2) [F81-OH1.1] Applies where finished flooring is required to provide water resistance.
[F81-OS3.1]
[F81-OS2.3] Applies where finished flooring is required to provide water resistance.
9.31.2.2. Corrosion Protection
(1) [F80-OH2.1] [F80-OS2.3] 9.31.2.3. Grab Bars (1) [F20-OS3.1]
9.31.3.1. Required Water Supply
(1) [F70,F71-OH2.2,OH2.3]
9.31.3.2. Required Connections
(1) [F71-OH2.3]
(2) [F71,F70-OH2.3]
9.31.4.1. Required Fixtures
(1) [F71,F70,F72-OH2.1,OH2.3] 9.31.4.2. Hot Water Supply
(1) [F71-OH2.3]
9.31.5.1. Building Sewer
(1) [F72-OH2.1]
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.31.5.2. Discharge of Sewage
(1) [F72-OH2.1]
(2) [F72-OH2.1]
9.31.6.1. Hot Water Supply
(1) (a) [F40-OH2.1,OH2.4] [F71-OH2.3] 9.31.6.2. Equipment and Installation
(1) [F31,F30,F81-OS3.2] [F44-OS3.4] (2) [F44-OH1.1]
[F01-OS1.1] (3) [F23-OS3.4] [F01-OS1.1]
9.31.6.3. Corrosion-Resistant Coating
(1) [F81,F80-OH2.3]
9.31.6.4. Fuel-Burning Heaters
(1) [F41-OH1.1] [F01-OS1.1]
9.31.6.5. Heating Coils
(1) [F31-OS3.2] [F71-OH2.3]
9.32.1.2. Required Ventilation
(1) [F40,F50,F52-OH1.1] [F51,F52-OH1.2]
(2) [F40,F50,F52-OH1.1] [F51,F52-OH1.2]
9.32.1.3. Venting of Laundry-Drying Equipment (1) [F40,F44,F50,F52-OH1.1]
[F01-OS1.1]
[F01-OP1.1] (2) [F81-OS1.1] [F81-OP1.1]
[F40,F80-OH1.1]
[F63,F80-OS2.3]
(3) [F40,F44,F50,F52-OH1.1]
[F01-OS1.1]
[F01-OP1.1]
9.32.2.1. Required Ventilation
(1) [F40,F50,F52-OH1.1] [F51,F52-OH1.2]
9.32.2.2. Non-Heating-Season Natural Ventilation
(1) [F51,F52-OH1.2] [F40,F52,F50-OH1.1]
(3) [F42-OH2.5]
[F61,F42-OH1.1]
[F61,F42-OS2.3]
(4) [F80-OH2.5]
[F80,F42-OH1.1,OH1.2]
9-328 Division B Amended Page National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
                                                                                     © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
9.37.1.1.
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.32.2.3. Non-Heating-Season Mechanical Ventilation
(1) [F40,F50,F52-OH1.1]
(3) [F40,F50,F52-OH1.1] [F51,F52-OH1.2]
(4) [F40,F50,F52-OH1.1] [F51,F52-OH1.2]
9.32.3.1. Required Ventilation
(1) [F40,F50,F53-OS3.4]
[F40,F50,F52-OH1.1] [F51,F52-OH1.2]
(2) (a),(b) [F40,F50,F52-OH1.1] (a),(b) [F51,F52-OH1.2]
(c) [F53-OH1.1]
(c) [F53-OS3.4]
9.32.3.2. Design and Installation
(1) [F52-OS2.3]
[F40,F52,F50-OH1.1] [F52,F51-OH1.2]
(2) [F81-OH1.1]
(3) [F81-OH1.1] [F81-OS3.4]
(4) [F40,F43,F50,F53-OH1.1] [F43,F53,F82-OS3.4]
(5) [F82-OH1.1]
(6) [F63,F81-OH1.1]
9.32.3.3. Principal Ventilation System
(1) [F40,F50,F52-OH1.1] [F51,F52-OH1.2]
(2) [F40,F50,F52-OH1.1] [F51,F52-OH1.2]
(4) [F80,F81-OH1.1]
(5) [F81-OH1.1]
(6) [F81-OH1.1]
(7) [F81-OH1.1]
(8) [F81-OH1.1]
(9) [F40,F50,F52-OH1.1]
(10) [F40-OH1.1]
9.32.3.4. Ventilation Systems Used in Conjunction with Forced Air Heating Systems
(2) [F50,F51,F81-OH1.1] [F51,F81-OH1.2] [F43,F50,F81-OS3.4]
(5) [F40,F43,F50,F52-OH1.1]
(a) [F43,F50,F53-OS3.4] (b) [F43,F50,F81-OS3.4]
(6) [F53-OH1.1] [F43,F50,F53-OS3.4]
[F53,F63-OS2.3]
(7) [F40,F50,F52,F53-OH1.1]
[F43,F50,F53-OS3.4]
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
(8) (a),(b) [F81-OH1.1] (c) [F53-OH1.1]
(c) [F53,F63-OS2.3]
(9) (a),(b) [F43,F53-OH1.1] (c) [F53,F63-OH1.1]
(a),(b) [F43,F50,F53-OS3.4]
(c) [F53,F63-OS2.3] (10) [F53-OH1.1]
[F43,F50,F53-OS3.4]
[F53,F63-OS2.3] (11) [F53-OH1.1] (12) [F81-OH1.2]
9.32.3.5. Ventilation Systems Not Used in Conjunction with Forced Air Heating Systems
(2) [F53-OH1.1] [F43,F50,F53-OS3.4]
(3) (a) [F43,F53-OH1.1] (b) [F53,F63-OH1.1]
(a) [F43,F50,F53-OS3.4]
(b) [F53,F63-OS2.3]
(4) [F40,F43,F50,F52-OH1.1]
[F43,F50,F53-OS3.4]
(5) [F53-OH1.1]
[F53,F63-OS2.3]
[F43,F50,F53-OS3.4]
(6) [F53-OH1.1]
[F53,F63-OS2.3]
[F43,F50,F53-OS3.4]
(7) [F53-OH1.1]
(8) [F51,F54-OH1.2]
(9) [F54-OH1.2]
(10) [F40,F50,F52-OH1.1]
(12) [F40,F50,F52-OH1.1]
(13) [F51,F54-OH1.2]
(14) [F40,F50,F52-OH1.1]
9.32.3.7. Supplemental Exhaust (1) [F40,F52-OH1.1]
(4) [F40,F52-OH1.1] (5) [F40,F52-OH1.1] (6) [F81-OH1.1]
(8) [F81-OH1.1]
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Division B
9-329
                                                                                © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 9.37.1.1.
Division B
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.32.3.8. Protection Against Depressurization
(2) [F53-OH1.1]
(a) [F43,F50,F53-OS3.4]
(b) [F53,F63-OS2.3]
(3) [F53,F81-OH1.1]
[F43,F50,F53,F81-OS3.4]
(4) [F81-OS3.4]
[F81-OH1.1,OH1.2]
(5) [F53-OH1.1]
[F81-OS1.1]
[F80,F81-OS3.4]
(7) [F43,F50,F53-OS3.4]
[F53-OH1.1]
9.32.3.9. Carbon Monoxide Alarms
(2) (a),(b),(d) [F44-OS3.4] (c) [F81-OS3.4]
(3) [F44-OS3.4]
(4) [F44-OS3.4]
(5) [F44-OS3.4]
(6) [F44-OS3.4]
(7) [F11-OS3.4]
9.32.3.10. Fans
(1) [F40,F50,F52,F53-OH1.1] [F51,F52-OH1.2] [F53,F63-OS2.3]
(2) [F81-OH1.1,OH1.2]
(3) [F53-OH1.1,OH1.2] [F53-OS3.4]
(4) [F40,F50,F52,F53-OH1.1] [F51,F52-OH1.2]
(5) [F81-OH1.1,OH1.2]
(6) [F81-OS3.4]
[F81-OH1.1,OH1.2]
(7) [F40,F50,F52,F53-OH1.1] [F51,F52-OH1.2]
[F81-OS3.4]
9.32.3.11. Ducts
(1) [F81-OH1.1]
(2) [F40,F52,F63-OH1.1]
[F52,F63-OS2.3]
(3) [F63-OH1.1]
[F63,F80-OS2.3]
(4) [F63-OH1.1]
(5) [F41,F82-OH1.1] [F01,F82-OS1.1]
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
(6) (a),(b),(c) [F02,F03-OS1.1] (a) [F80-OS1.1]
(c) [F82-OS1.1]
(7) [F41,F53,F80-OH1.1]
(8) [F40,F41-OH1.1] [F40,F63-OS2.3]
(9) [F40,F50,F52,F53-OH1.1] [F53-OS3.4]
(12) [F40,F50,F52,F53-OH1.1] [F53-OS3.4]
9.32.3.12. Heat Recovery Ventilators
(2) [F40,F50,F52-OH1.1]
(3) [F40,F50,F52-OH1.1]
(4) [F53-OH1.1,OH1.2]
[F53,F63-OS2.3]
[F43,F53-OS3.4]
(5) [F62-OH1.1]
(6) [F81-OH1.1]
9.32.3.13. Outdoor Intake and Exhaust Openings
(1) [F40,F50,F52-OH1.1] [F40,F44,F50-OS3.4]
(2) [F40,F50,F52,F53-OH1.1] [F43,F53-OS3.4]
(3) [F40,F50,F52-OH1.1] [F40,F50,F44-OS3.4]
(4) [F40,F50,F52-OH1.1]
[F40,F44,F50,F53-OS3.4]
(5) [F40,F53-OH1.1]
(6) [F61-OH1.1] [F61-OS2.3]
(7) [F42-OH1.1]
[F01,F42-OS1.1]
[F42-OH2.5]
(8) [F42,F63-OH1.1] [F01,F42-OS1.1]
(9) [F42-OH1.1] [F01,F42-OS1.1]
(10) [F53,F82-OH1.1] [F43,F53,F82-OS3.4]
(11) [F53,F81-OH1.1] [F43,F53-OS3.4]
(12) [F42,F80-OH2.5]
[F01,F42,F80-OS1.1]
9-330 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
                                                                                      © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
9.37.1.1.
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.33.1.1. Application
(3) [F40-OH1.1] [F40-OS3.4]
9.33.2.1. Required Heating Systems
(1) [F51,F52-OH1.2] [F63-OH1.1] [F63-OS2.3]
9.33.3.1. Indoor Design Temperatures
(1) [F51-OH1.2]
9.33.4.1. Design of Heating and Air-conditioning Systems
(1) [F41,F63-OH1.1] [F51,F52-OH1.2] [F63-OS2.3] Applies only to heating systems. [F44-OS3.4] Applies only to heating systems.
9.33.4.2. Installation of Hydronic Heating Systems
(1) [F01-OS1.1] [F01-OP1.1]
[F63-OH1.1] [F51,F52-OH1.2] [F63-OS2.3]
[F44-OS3.4] Applies to heating equipment.
9.33.4.3. Heating System Control
(1) [F51,F52-OH1.2] [F63-OH1.1]
9.33.4.4. Access
(1) [F82-OH1.1,OH1.2]
[F82-OS2.3] Applies only to heating systems. [F82-OS1.1]
[F82-OP1.1]
9.33.4.5. Protection from Freezing
(1) [F81-OH1.1,OH1.2]
[F81-OS2.3] Applies only to heating systems.
9.33.4.6. Expansion, Contraction and System Pressure
(1) [F20-OH1.1,OH1.2] [F20-OS3.2]
[F20-OS2.3] Applies only to heating systems.
9.33.4.7. Structural Movement
(1) [F23-OS3.4] [F23-OH1.1,OH1.2]
[F23-OS1.1]
[F23-OP1.1]
(2) [F20-OS3.3,OS3.4] [F20-OS1.1]
9.33.4.8. Asbestos
(1) [F43-OH1.1]
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
9.33.4.9. Contaminant Transfer
(1) [F44-OH1.1] [F44-OS3.4]
9.33.5.1. Capacity of Heating Appliances
(1) [F63-OH1.1] [F51-OH1.2] [F63-OS2.3]
9.33.5.2. Installation Standards
(1) [F01-OP1.1] Applies to heating equipment. [F41,F63,F50-OH1.1] [F51,F52-OH1.2] [F63-OS2.3] Applies to heating equipment. [F44-OS3.4] Applies to heating equipment. [F01-OS1.1] Applies to heating equipment.
9.33.5.3. Design, Construction and Installation Standard for Solid-Fuel-Burning Appliances
(1) [F41,F43-OH1.1] [F51-OH1.2] [F51-OS2.3]
[F43-OS3.4] [F01-OS1.1] [F01-OP1.1]
9.33.6.2. Materials in Air Duct Systems
(1) [F01-OS1.1] [F01-OP1.1]
(2) (a),(b),(c),(d) [F01-OS1.1] (a),(b),(c),(d) [F01-OP1.1]
(3) [F01-OS1.1] [F01-OP1.1]
(4) (a),(b),(c),(d) [F01-OS1.1] (a),(b),(c),(d) [F01-OP1.1]
(7) (a),(b) [F41,F63-OH1.1] [F50,F51,F52-OH1.2] (a),(b) [F63-OS2.3]
9.33.6.3. Tape
(1) [F01-OS1.1] [F01-OP1.1]
9.33.6.4. Coverings, Linings, Adhesives and Insulation
(1) [F01-OS1.1] [F01-OP1.1]
(2) (a),(b) [F01-OS1.1] (a),(b) [F01-OP1.1]
(3) (a),(b) [F01-OS1.1] (a),(b) [F01-OP1.1]
(4) [F01-OS1.1] [F01-OP1.1]
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Division B
9-331
                                                                                      © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 9.37.1.1.
Division B
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
(5) [F01-OS1.1] [F01-OP1.1]
(6) [F01-OS1.1]
(c) [F01,F02,F05-OS1.5]
[F01-OP1.1]
(7) [F01-OS1.1] [F01-OP1.1]
(8) (a),(b) [F01,F03-OS1.1] (a),(b) [F01,F03-OP1.1]
(9) [F63-OH1.1] Applies to ventilation ducts and their fittings. [F51,F52-OH1.2] Applies to air duct distribution systems serving heating systems.
[F03-OS1.1] Applies to air duct distribution systems. [F03-OP1.1] Applies to air duct distribution systems. [F63-OS2.3] Applies to air duct distribution systems.
9.33.6.5. Galvanized Steel or Aluminum Supply Ducts
(1) [F20-OH1.1,OH1.2] [F01-OS1.1] [F01-OP1.1]
(2) [F20,F63-OH1.1] [F20,F51,F52-OH1.2] [F20,F63-OS2.3]
9.33.6.6. Construction of Ducts and Plenums
(1) [F03-OS1.1] [F03-OP1.1]
(2) [F01-OS1.1] [F20-OS3.1]
[F63-OH1.1] [F51,F52-OH1.2]
[F20,F63-OS2.3]
(3) [F43,F63-OH1.1] [F51,F52-OH1.2]
[F01-OS1.1] [F63-OS2.3] [F01-OP1.1]
(4) [F43,F63-OH1.1] [F51,F52-OH1.2] [F63-OS2.3]
[F01-OS1.1]
[F01-OP1.1]
(5) [F63-OH1.1] [F51,F52-OH1.2]
[F63-OS2.3] [F01-OS1.1] [F01-OP1.1]
9.33.6.7. Installation of Ducts and Plenums
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
(2) [F63-OH1.1] [F51,F52-OH1.2] [F63-OS2.3]
[F01-OS1.1]
[F01-OP1.1]
(3) [F63-OH1.1] [F51,F52-OH1.2]
[F63-OS2.3]
[F20-OS3.1]
(4) [F51,F52-OH1.2] [F63,F50-OH1.1]
[F63,F80-OS2.3] (5) [F01-OS1.1] [F01-OP1.1]
(6) [F80-OH1.1,OH1.2] [F80-OS2.3]
(7) (a),(b) [F40,F62-OH1.1,OH1.2] (a),(b) [F40,F62-OS2.3]
(b) [F44-OS3.4]
9.33.6.8. Clearances of Ducts and Plenums
(2) (a),(b) [F01-OS1.1] (a),(b) [F01-OP1.1]
(3) (a),(b) [F01-OS1.1] (a),(b) [F01-OP1.1]
(4) (a),(b),(c) [F01-OS1.1] (a),(b),(c) [F01-OP1.1]
(5) [F01-OS1.1] [F01-OP1.1]
9.33.6.9. Adjustable Dampers and Balance Stops
(1) [F40,F63-OH1.1] [F51,F52-OH1.2]
[F63-OS2.3] Applies to branch supply ducts that are not fitted with diffusers with adjustable balance stops.
9.33.6.10. Warm-Air Supply Outlets and Return Inlets — General
(1) [F81-OS1.1] [F81-OH1.1,OH1.2]
[F81-OS2.3]
(2) (a),(b) [F01,F02-OS1.1]
(a),(b) [F01,F02-OP1.1]
9.33.6.11. Warm-Air Supply Outlets
(1) [F40,F63-OH1.1] [F51,F52-OH1.2] [F63-OS2.3]
(2) [F63-OH1.1] [F51-OH1.2] [F63-OS2.3]
(3) [F40,F63-OH1.1] [F51-OH1.2]
(4) [F40,F63-OH1.1] [F51-OH1.2]
[F63-OS2.3]
(1)
[F40-OH1.1] [F40-OS3.4]
9-332
Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
                                                                                       © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
9.37.1.1.
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
(5) [F40,F63-OH1.1] [F51-OH1.2] [F63-OS2.3]
(6) [F40,F63-OH1.1] [F51-OH1.2] [F63-OS2.3]
(8) [F31-OS3.2]
(9) [F40,F63-OH1.1] [F51-OH1.2]
[F63-OS2.3] Applies to warm-air supply outlets located in finished areas.
9.33.6.12. Return-Air Inlets
(1) [F44,F40-OH1.1] [F44,F40-OS3.4]
(2) [F63-OH1.1] [F51-OH1.2]
(3) [F63-OH1.1] [F51-OH1.2]
[F63-OS2.3]
9.33.6.13. Return-Air System
(1) [F63-OH1.1] [F51-OH1.2] [F63-OS2.3]
(2) [F01-OS1.1] [F01-OP1.1]
(3) [F01-OS1.1] [F01-OP1.1]
(4) (a),(b),(c) [F01-OS1.1] (a),(b),(c) [F01-OP1.1]
(5) [F51,F52-OH1.1,OH1.2] [F51,F52-OS2.3]
(6) [F63-OH1.1] [F51-OH1.2]
[F63-OS2.3]
(7) (a),(b) [F44-OH1.1]
(a),(b) [F44-OS3.4]
9.33.6.14. Filters and Odour Removal Equipment
(1) [F01-OS1.1] [F01-OP1.1]
(2) [F32-OS3.3] [F41-OH1.1]
(3) (a),(b) [F81-OH1.1]
9.33.7.1. Recessed Radiators and Convectors
(1) [F01-OS1.1] [F01-OP1.1]
9.33.7.2. Surface Temperature
(1) [F31-OS3.2]
9.33.8.1. Piping Materials and Installation
(1) [F20-OS3.2] [F20-OH1.1,OH1.2]
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
(2) [F21,F40-OH1.1] [F21,F51-OH1.2] (3) [F20-OS2.2]
9.33.8.2. Insulation and Coverings
(1) [F80-OH1.2]
[F80-OS3.2]
(2) (a),(b) [F01-OS1.1]
(a),(b) [F01-OP1.1]
(3) (a),(b) [F01,F02-OS1.1,OS1.2]
(a),(b) [F01,F02-OP1.1,OP1.2] (4) [F01,F02-OS1.1,OS1.2]
[F01,F02-OP1.1] (5) [F31-OS3.2]
9.33.8.3. Clearances
(1) [F01-OS1.1] [F01-OP1.1]
9.33.8.4. Protection
(1) [F01-OS1.1] [F01-OP1.1]
(2) [F01-OS1.1] [F01-OP1.1]
9.33.9.1. Cooling Units
(1) (a),(b),(c) [F43-OH1.1] [F51-OH1.2]
9.33.10.2. Factory-Built Chimneys
(1) [F01-OS1.1] [F44-OS3.4]
[F44,F41-OH1.1]
[F01-OP1.1]
9.34.1.1. Standard for Electrical Installations
(1) [F32-OS3.3] [F01-OS1.1] [F01-OP1.1]
9.34.1.3. Location of Equipment in Public Areas
(1) [F10-OS3.1] [F32-OS3.3]
9.34.1.4. Recessed Lighting Fixtures
(1) [F01-OS1.1]
9.34.1.5. Wiring and Cables
(1) [F02-OS1.2] [F02-OP1.2]
9.34.2.1. Lighting of Entrances
(1) [F30-OS3.1] [F34-OS4.2]
9.34.2.2. Outlets in Dwelling Units
(1) [F30-OS3.1]
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Division B
9-333
                                                                                         © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 9.37.1.1.
Division B
Table 9.37.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
(2) [F30-OS3.1]
9.34.2.3. Stairways
(1) [F30-OS3.1]
(2) [F30-OS3.1]
9.34.2.4. Basements
(1) [F30-OS3.1]
(2) [F30-OS3.1]
9.34.2.5. Storage Rooms
(1) [F30-OS3.1]
9.34.2.6. Garages and Carports
(1) [F30-OS3.1]
(2) [F30-OS3.1]
(3) [F30-OS3.1]
9.34.2.7. Public and Service Areas
(1) [F30-OS3.1]
(2) [F30-OS3.1]
(3) [F30-OS3.1]
9.35.3.2. Protection from Damage due to Soil Movement
(1) [F21-OS2.3]
[F21-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F21-OP2.3,OP2.4]
[F21-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors. [F21-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
(2) [F21-OS2.3] [F21-OH1.1,OH1.2,OH1.3]
[F21-OP2.3,OP2.4]
[F21-OH4] Applies to floors and elements that support floors. [F21-OS3.1] Applies to floors and elements that support floors.
9.35.3.4. Column Piers
(1) [F80-OS2.3] [F80-OP2.3]
(2) [F20-OS2.1,OS2.2] [F20-OP2.1,OP2.2]
9.35.4.2. Columns
(1) [F20-OS2.1] [F20-OP2.1]
9.35.4.3. Anchorage
(1) [F22-OS2.4,OS2.5] [F22-OP2.4,OP2.5]
Notes to Table 9.37.1.1.:
(1) See Parts 2 and 3 of Division A.
9-334 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
                                         © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Fire and Sound Resistance Tables
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-335
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Fire and Sound Resistance Tables
Table 9.10.3.1.-A
Fire and Sound Resistance of Walls(1)
Forming Part of Article 5.8.1.3., Sentence 9.10.3.1.(1), Articles 9.11.1.3. and 9.11.1.4., and Sentence 9.29.5.9.(5)
Type of Wall • Wood Studs
• Single Row
• Loadbearing or Non-
Loadbearing
Description
•38mmx89mmstudsspaced400mmor600mmo.c. • with or without absorptive material
• 1 layer of gypsum board on each side
W1 with
• 89 mm thick absorptive material(6) • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
W1 with
• 89 mm thick absorptive material(6) • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
W1 with
• 89 mm thick absorptive material(6)
• 12.7 mm regular gypsum board(7)(9)
W1 with
• no absorptive material
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
W1 with
• no absorptive material
• 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
W2 with
• 89 mm thick absorptive material(6) • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
W2 with
• 89 mm thick absorptive material(6) • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
W2 with
• 89 mm thick absorptive material(6) • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board(7)
W2 with
• no absorptive material
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
W2 with
• no absorptive material
• 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
W2 with
• no absorptive material
• 12.7 mm regular gypsum board(7)
W3 with
• studs spaced 400 mm o.c.
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
W3 with
• studs spaced 600 mm o.c.
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
W3 with
• studs spaced 400 mm or 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
Loadbearing
1 h
45 min [1 h(8)]
30 min 1h 45 min
1.5 h 1h 45 min 1.5 h 1h 45 min
45 min 45 min 45 min
Non- Transmission Loadbearing Class(2)(4)(5)
GG00032A
1 h 36
45 min
[1 h(8)] 34
30 min
[45 min(8)] 32
1h 32 45 min 32
2h 38 1.5 h 38 1h 36 2h 36 1.5 h 35 1h 34
1h 45
1h 48 45 min 43
Division B
9-336
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Wall Number
W1
W1a W1b W1c W1d W1e
W2a W2b W2c W2d W2e W2f
W3a W3b W3c
Fire-Resistance Rating(2)(3) Typical Sound
              W2
• 38 mm x 89 mm studs spaced 400 mm or 600 mm o.c. • with or without absorptive material
• 2 layers of gypsum board on each side
      GG00033A
           W3
• 38 mm x 89 mm studs spaced 400 mm or 600 mm o.c. • 89 mm thick absorptive material(6)
• resilient metal channels on one side spaced 400 mm
or 600 mm o.c.
• 1 layer of gypsum board on each side
    GG00034A
       © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Type of Wall
Table 9.10.3.1.-A (Continued)
Wall Fire-Resistance Rating(2)(3) Typical Sound
Number
Description Loadbearing Non- Transmission Loadbearing Class(2)(4)(5)
Fire and Sound Resistance Tables
W4with 1h W4a • studs spaced 400 mm o.c. 1 h [1.5 h(8)]
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
W4with 1h
51 54 49 53
51 54 49 53
W4b • studs spaced 600 mm o.c.
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
W4 with
W4c • studs spaced 400 mm o.c.
• 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
W4 with
W4d • studs spaced 600 mm o.c.
• 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
W5 with
W5a • studs spaced 400 mm o.c.
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
W5 with
W5b • studs spaced 600 mm o.c.
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
W5 with
W5c • studs spaced 400 mm o.c.
• 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
W5 with
W5d • studs spaced 600 mm o.c.
• 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
1 h
45 min [1 h(8)]
45 min [1 h(8)]
45 min 45 min 45 min 45 min
[1.5 h(8)] 1h
1h
1h 1h 1h 1h
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Division B
9-337
     W4
• 38 mm x 89 mm studs spaced 400 mm or 600 mm o.c. • 89 mm thick absorptive material(6)
• resilient metal channels on one side spaced 400 mm
or 600 mm o.c.
• 2 layers of gypsum board on resilient metal channel side • 1 layer of gypsum board on other side
    GG00035A
        W5
• 38 mm x 89 mm studs spaced 400 mm or 600 mm o.c. • 89 mm thick absorptive material(6)
• resilient metal channels on one side spaced 400 mm
or 600 mm o.c.
• 1 layer of gypsum board on resilient metal channel side • 2 layers of gypsum board on other side
      GG00036A
         W6
• 38 mm x 89 mm studs spaced 400 mm or 600 mm o.c. • with or without absorptive material
• resilient metal channels on one side
• 2 layers of gypsum board on each side
     GG00037A
  W6a
W6 with
• studs spaced 400 mm or 600 mm o.c.
• 89 mm thick absorptive material(6)
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
  1.5 h
 2h
 55
  W6b
W6 with
• studs spaced 400 mm or 600 mm o.c.
• 89 mm thick absorptive material(6)
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
  1.5 h
 2h
 58
  W6c
W6 with
• studs spaced 400 mm o.c.
• 89 mm thick absorptive material(6)
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
  1h
 1.5 h
 53
         © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Fire and Sound Resistance Tables
Type of Wall
Loadbearing
Non- Transmission Loadbearing Class(2)(4)(5)
• Wood Studs
• Two Rows Staggered on
38mm×140mm Plate
• Loadbearing or Non- Loadbearing
W7a W7b W7c
W8a W8b
W7with
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
W7 with
• 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
W7 with
• 12.7 mm regular gypsum board(7)(9)
W8with
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
W8with
• 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
1h 1h 47
Division B
9-338
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Wall Number
Table 9.10.3.1.-A (Continued)
Description
Fire-Resistance Rating(2)(3) Typical Sound
45 min [1 h(8)]
30 min
45 min 45 [1 h(8)]
30 min 42 [45 min(8)]
1h 1.5h 52 45min 1h 50
           W6d
W6 with
• studs spaced 400 mm o.c.
• 89 mm thick absorptive material(6)
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
  1h
 1.5 h
 55
  W6e
W6 with
• studs spaced 600 mm o.c.
• 89 mm thick absorptive material(6)
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
  1h
 1.5 h
 55
  W6f
W6 with
• studs spaced 600 mm o.c.
• 89 mm thick absorptive material(6)
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
  1h
 1.5 h
 58
  W6g
W6 with
• studs spaced 400 mm or 600 mm o.c.
• 89 mm thick absorptive material(6)
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board(7)
  45 min
 1h
 50
  W6h
W6 with
• studs spaced 400 mm or 600 mm o.c.
• 89 mm thick absorptive material(6)
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board(7)
  45 min
 1h
 52
  W6i
W6 with
• studs spaced 400 mm or 600 mm o.c.
• no absorptive material
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm or 600 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
  1.5 h
 2h
 47
  W6j
W6 with
• studs spaced 400 mm or 600 mm o.c.
• no absorptive material
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm or 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
  1h
 1.5 h
 46
  W7
• two rows 38 mm x 89 mm studs each spaced 400 mm or 600 mm o.c. staggered on common 38 mm x 140 mm plate
• 89 mm thick absorptive material on one side or 65 mm thick on each side(6)
• 1 layer of gypsum board on each side
    GG00038A
                W8
• Two rows 38 mm x 89 mm studs each spaced 400 mm or 600 mm o.c. staggered on common 38 mm x 140 mm plate
• 89 mm thick absorptive material on one side or 65 mm thick on each side(6)
• 2 layers of gypsum board on one side • 1 layer of gypsum board on other side
    GG00039A
      © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Type of Wall
Loadbearing
Non- Transmission Loadbearing Class(2)(4)(5)
Wall Number
Table 9.10.3.1.-A (Continued)
Description
Fire-Resistance Rating(2)(3) Typical Sound
W9d
W9 with
• no absorptive material
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
1.5 h
2 h
48
W10c W10d
W11a W11b
W10 with
• no absorptive material
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
W10 with
• no absorptive material
• 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
W11 with
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
W11 with
• 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
1.5 h 1 h
1 h
45 min [1 h(8)]
2 h 1.5 h
1 h 1 h
50 48
56 54
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Division B
9-339
Fire and Sound Resistance Tables
      W9
• two rows 38 mm x 89 mm studs each spaced 400 mm or 600 mm o.c. staggered on common 38 mm x 140 mm plate
• with or without absorptive material
• 2 layers of gypsum board on each side
    GG00040A
      W9a
W9 with
• 89 mm thick absorptive material on one side or 65 mm
thick on each side(6)
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
  1.5 h
 2h
 56
  W9b
W9 with
• 89 mm thick absorptive material on one side or 65 mm
thick on each side(6)
• 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
  1h
 1.5 h
 55
  W9c
W9 with
• 89 mm thick absorptive material on one side or 65 mm
thick on each side(6)
• 12.7 mm regular gypsum board(7)
  45 min
 1h
 53
          W10
• two rows 38 mm x 89 mm studs each spaced 400 mm or 600 mm o.c. staggered on common 38 mm x 140 mm plate
• with or without absorptive material
• resilient metal channels on one side spaced 400 mm
or 600 mm o.c.
• 2 layers of gypsum board on each side
         GG00041A
  W10a
W10 with
• 89 mm thick absorptive material on one side or 65 mm
thick on each side(6)
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
  1.5 h
 2h
 62
  W10b
W10 with
• 89 mm thick absorptive material on one side or 65 mm
thick on each side(6)
• 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
  1h
 1.5 h
 60
           W11
• two rows 38 mm x 89 mm studs each spaced 400 mm or 600 mm o.c. staggered on common 38 mm x 140 mm plate
• 89 mm thick absorptive material on one side or 65 mm thick on each side(6)
• resilient metal channels on one side spaced 400 mm or 600 mm o.c.
• 2 layers of gypsum board on resilient channel side • 1 layer of gypsum board on other side
      GG00042A
      © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Fire and Sound Resistance Tables
Type of Wall
Loadbearing
45 min 45 min
1h
45 min [1 h(8)]
1h 45 min 1h 45 min
1h 45 min 1h 45 min 1 h
Non- Transmission Loadbearing Class(2)(4)(5)
1h 56 1h 54
1h 57
45 min
[1 h(8)] 57
1h 54 45 min 53 1h 45 45 min 45
1h
[1.5 h(8)] 61
1h 61 1h 57 1h 57 1h 51
• Wood Studs
• Two Rows on Separate Plates
• Loadbearing or Non- Loadbearing
Division B
9-340
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Wall Number
W12a W12b
W13a W13b W13c W13d W13e W13f
W14a
W14b W14c W14d W14e
Table 9.10.3.1.-A (Continued)
Description
W12 with
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
W12 with
• 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
W13 with
• 89 mm thick absorptive material on each side(6)(10) • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
W13 with
• 89 mm thick absorptive material on each side(6)(10) • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
W13 with
• 89 mm thick absorptive material on one side only(6)(10) • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
W13 with
• 89 mm thick absorptive material on one side only(6)(10) • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
W13 with
• no absorptive material
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
W13 with
• no absorptive material
• 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
W14 with
• 89 mm thick absorptive material on each side(6)(10) • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
W14 with
• 89 mm thick absorptive material on each side(6)(10) • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
W14 with
• 89 mm thick absorptive material on one side only(6)(10) • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
W14 with
• 89 mm thick absorptive material on one side only(6)(10) • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
W14 with
• no absorptive material
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
Fire-Resistance Rating(2)(3) Typical Sound
     W12
• two rows 38 mm x 89 mm studs each spaced 400 mm or 600 mm o.c. staggered on common 38 mm x 140 mm plate
• 89 mm thick absorptive material on one side or 65 mm thick on each side(6)
• resilient metal channels on one side spaced 400 mm or 600 mm o.c.
• 1 layer of gypsum board on resilient metal channel side • 2 layers of gypsum board on other side
        GG00043A
      W13
• two rows 38 mm x 89 mm studs, each spaced 400 mm or 600 mm o.c. on separate 38 mm x 89 mm plates set 25 mm apart
• with or without absorptive material
• 1 layer of gypsum board on each side
     GG00044A
            W14
• two rows 38 mm x 89 mm studs, each spaced 400 mm or 600 mm o.c. on separate 38 mm x 89 mm plates set 25 mm apart
• with or without absorptive material
• 2 layers of gypsum board on one side • 1 layer of gypsum board on other side
      GG00045A
        © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Type of Wall
Loadbearing
45 min
1.5 h 1h 45 min 1.5 h 1h 45 min 1.5 h 1h 45 min
1h 45 min 45 min
Non- Transmission Loadbearing Class(2)(4)(5)
1h 51
2h 66 1.5 h 65 1h 61 2h 62 1.5 h 60 1h 57 2h 56 1.5 h 55 1h 51
1h n/a
• Exterior Wood Studs • Single Row
• Loadbearing or Non- Loadbearing EW1a
Wall Number
Table 9.10.3.1.-A (Continued)
Description
Fire-Resistance Rating(2)(3) Typical Sound
W14 with
W14f • no absorptive material
• 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
W15 with
W15a • 89 mm thick absorptive material on each side(6)(10)
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
W15 with
W15b • 89 mm thick absorptive material on each side(6)(10)
• 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
W15 with
W15c • 89 mm thick absorptive material on each side(6)(10)
• 12.7 mm regular gypsum board(7)
W15 with
W15d • 89 mm thick absorptive material on one side only(6)(10)
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
W15 with
W15e • 89 mm thick absorptive material on one side only(6)(10)
• 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
W15 with
W15f • 89 mm thick absorptive material on one side only(6)(10)
• 12.7 mm regular gypsum board(7)
W15 with
W15g • no absorptive material
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
W15 with
W15h • no absorptive material
• 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
W15 with
W15i • no absorptive material
• 12.7 mm regular gypsum board(7)
EW1 with
• 1 layer of 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board(7)(11) • exterior sheathing and cladding(12)
EW1 with
EW1b • 1 layer 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board(7)(11)
• exterior sheathing and cladding(12)
EW1 with
EW1c • 2 layers of 12.7 mm regular gypsum board(7)(11)
• exterior sheathing and cladding(12)
45 min 45 min
n/a n/a
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Division B
9-341
Fire and Sound Resistance Tables
      W15
• two rows 38 mm x 89 mm studs, each spaced 400 mm or 600 mm o.c. on separate 38 mm x 89 mm plates set 25 mm apart
• with or without absorptive material
• 2 layers of gypsum board on each side
   GG00046A
                EW1
• 38 mm x 89 mm studs spaced 400 mm or 600 mm o.c. • 89 mm thick absorptive material(8)
• 1 or 2 layers of gypsum board on inside
     GG00011A
        EW1d
EW1 with
• 1 layer of 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board(7)(11) • exterior sheathing(13)
• masonry veneer cladding
  45 min
 45 min
 n/a
  © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Fire and Sound Resistance Tables
Wall Type of Wall Number
Table 9.10.3.1.-A (Continued)
Fire-Resistance Rating(2)(3) Typical Sound Description Loadbearing Non- Transmission
Loadbearing Class(2)(4)(5)
Division B 9-342
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
        EW2
• wood studs
• 89 mm thick glass fiber insulation(14) • 1 layer of gypsum board on inside
     GG00099A
  EW2a
EW2 with
• 38 mm x 89 mm studs spaced not more than 400 mm
o.c
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board(7)(11) • exterior sheathing and cladding(12)
  1h
 1h
 n/a
  EW2b
EW2 with
• 38 mm x 89 mm studs spaced not more than 400 mm
o.c.
• 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board(7)(11) • exterior sheathing(13)
• masonry veneer cladding
  45 min
 45 min
 n/a
  EW2c
EW2 with
• 38 mm x 140 mm studs spaced not more than 600 mm
o.c
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board(7)(11) • exterior sheathing and cladding(12)
  45 min
 45 min
 n/a
 • Non-Loadbearing Steel Studs
• 0.46 mm (25 Gauge)
          S1
•31mmx64mmsteelstudsspaced400mmor600mm o.c.
• with or without absorptive material
• 1 layer of gypsum board on each side
    GG00018A
  S1a
S1 with
• studs spaced 600 mm o.c.
• 65 mm thick absorptive material(6) • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
  –
 45 min [1 h(8)]
 43
  S1b
S1 with
• studs spaced 400 mm o.c.
• 65 mm thick absorptive material(6) • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
  –
 45 min [1 h(8)]
 39
  S1c
S1 with
• studs spaced 400 mm or 600 mm o.c. • no absorptive material
•15.9 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
  –
 45 min
 35
  S2
•31mmx64mmsteelstudsspaced400mmor600mm o.c.
• with or without absorptive material
• 1 layer of gypsum board on one side
• 2 layers of gypsum board on other side
    GG00019A
  S2a
S2 with
• studs spaced 600 mm o.c.
• 65 mm thick absorptive material(6) • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
  –
 1h
 50
  S2b
S2 with
• studs spaced 400 mm o.c.
• 65 mm thick absorptive material(6) • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
  –
 1h
 44
  S2c
S2 with
• studs spaced 600 mm o.c.
• 65 mm thick absorptive material(6) • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
  –
 1h
 50
  S2d
S2 with
• studs spaced 400 mm o.c.
• 65 mm thick absorptive material(6) • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
  –
 1h
 42
                 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Fire and Sound Resistance Tables
Table 9.10.3.1.-A (Continued)
Wall Fire-Resistance Rating(2)(3) Typical Sound Type of Wall Number Description Loadbearing Non- Transmission
Loadbearing Class(2)(4)(5)
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-343
  S2e
S2 with
• studs spaced 600 mm o.c.
• no absorptive material
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board(7)–1h41
Fire and Sound Resistance Tables
Table 9.10.3.1.-A (Continued)
Wall Fire-Resistance Rating(2)(3) Typical Sound Type of Wall Number Description Loadbearing Non- Transmission
Loadbearing Class(2)(4)(5)
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-343
  S2e
S2 with
• studs spaced 600 mm o.c.
• no absorptive material
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board(7)–1h41S2f
S2 with
• studs spaced 400 mm o.c.
• no absorptive material
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board(7)–1h37S2g
S2 with
• studs spaced 600 mm o.c.
• no absorptive material
• 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board(7)–1h40S2h
S2 with
• studs spaced 400 mm o.c.
• no absorptive material
• 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board(7)–1h35S3
•31mmx64mmsteelstudsspaced400mmor600mm o.c.
• with or without absorptive material
• 2 layers of gypsum board on each side   GG00020AS3a
S3 with
• studs spaced 600 mm o.c.
• 65 mm thick absorptive material(6) • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board(7)–2h54S3b
S3 with
• studs spaced 400 mm o.c.
• 65 mm thick absorptive material(6) • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board(7)–2h51S3c
S3 with
• studs spaced 600 mm o.c.
• 65 mm thick absorptive material(6) • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board(7)–1.5 h53S3d
S3 with
• studs spaced 400 mm o.c.
• 65 mm thick absorptive material(6) • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board(7)–1.5 h47S3e
S3 with
• studs spaced 600 mm o.c.
• 65 mm thick absorptive material(6) • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board(7)–1h49S3f
S3 with
• studs spaced 400 mm o.c.
• 65 mm thick absorptive material(6) • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board(7)–1h41S3g
S3 with
• studs spaced 600 mm o.c.
• no absorptive material
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board(7)–2h45S3h
S3 with
• studs spaced 400 mm o.c.
• no absorptive material
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board(7)–2h42S3i
S3 with
• studs spaced 600 mm o.c.
• no absorptive material
• 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board(7)–1.5 h44© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022
 Fire and Sound Resistance Tables
Wall Type of Wall Number
Table 9.10.3.1.-A (Continued)
Fire-Resistance Rating(2)(3) Typical Sound Description Loadbearing Non- Transmission
Loadbearing Class(2)(4)(5)
Division B 9-344
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
                  S3j
S3 with
• studs spaced 400 mm o.c.
• no absorptive material
• 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
  –
 1.5 h
 39
  S3k
S3 with
• studs spaced 600 mm o.c.
• no absorptive material
• 12.7 mm regular gypsum board(7)
  –
 1h
 40
  S3l
S3 with
• studs spaced 400 mm o.c.
• no absorptive material
• 12.7 mm regular gypsum board(7)
  –
 1h
 37
  S4
•31mmx92mmsteelstudsspaced400mmor600mm o.c.
• with or without absorptive material
• 1 layer of gypsum board on each side
    GG00021A
  S4a
S4 with
• studs spaced 600 mm o.c.
• 89 mm thick absorptive material(6) • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
  –
 45 min [1 h(8)]
 48
  S4b
S4 with
• studs spaced 400 mm o.c.
• 89 mm thick absorptive material(6) • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
  –
 45 min [1 h(8)]
 47
  S4c
S4 with
• studs spaced 600 mm o.c.
• no absorptive material
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
  –
 45 min
 38
  S4d
S4 with
• studs spaced 400 mm o.c.
• no absorptive material
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
  –
 45 min
 38
  S5
•31mmx92mmsteelstudsspaced400mmor600mm o.c.
• with or without absorptive material
• 1 layer of gypsum board on one side
• 2 layers of gypsum board on other side
    GG00022A
  S5a
S5 with
• studs spaced 600 mm o.c.
• 89 mm thick absorptive material(6) • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
  –
 1h [1.5 h(8)]
 53
  S5b
S5 with
• studs spaced 400 mm o.c.
• 89 mm thick absorptive material(6) • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
  –
 1h [1.5 h(8)]
 52
  S5c
S5 with
• studs spaced 600 mm o.c.
• 89 mm thick absorptive material(6) • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
  –
 1h [1.5 h(8)]
 51
  S5d
S5 with
• studs spaced 400 mm o.c.
• 89 mm thick absorptive material(6) • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
  –
 1h [1.5 h(8)]
 50
  S5e
S5 with
• studs spaced 600 mm o.c.
• no absorptive material
•15.9 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
  –
 1h
 43
                 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Fire and Sound Resistance Tables
Table 9.10.3.1.-A (Continued)
Wall Fire-Resistance Rating(2)(3) Typical Sound Type of Wall Number Description Loadbearing Non- Transmission
Loadbearing Class(2)(4)(5)
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-345
                  S5f
S5 with
• studs spaced 400 mm o.c.
• no absorptive material
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
  –
 1h
 42
  S5g
S5 with
• studs spaced 600 mm o.c.
• no absorptive material
• 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
  –
 1h
 41
  S5h
S5 with
• studs spaced 400 mm o.c.
• no absorptive material
• 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
  –
 1h
 40
  S6
•31mmx92mmsteelstudsspaced400mmor600mm o.c.
• with or without absorptive material
• 2 layers of gypsum board on each side
    GG00023A
  S6a
S6 with
• studs spaced 600 mm o.c.
• 89 mm thick absorptive material(6) • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
  –
 2h
 56
  S6b
S6 with
• studs spaced 400 mm o.c.
• 89 mm thick absorptive material(6) • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
  –
 2h
 55
  S6c
S6 with
• studs spaced 600 mm o.c.
• 89 mm thick absorptive material(6) • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
  –
 1.5 h
 55
  S6d
S6 with
• studs spaced 400 mm o.c.
• 89 mm thick absorptive material(6) • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
  –
 1.5 h
 54
  S6e
S6 with
• studs spaced 600 mm o.c.
• 89 mm thick absorptive material(6) • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board(7)
  –
 1h
 50
  S6f
S6 with
• studs spaced 400 mm o.c.
• 89 mm thick absorptive material(6) • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board(7)
  –
 1h
 48
  S6g
S6 with
• studs spaced 600 mm o.c.
• no absorptive material
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
  –
 2h
 47
  S6h
S6 with
• studs spaced 400 mm o.c.
• no absorptive material
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
  –
 2h
 45
  S6i
S6 with
• studs spaced 600 mm o.c.
• no absorptive material
• 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
  –
 1.5 h
 45
  S6j
S6 with
• studs spaced 400 mm o.c.
• no absorptive material
• 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
  –
 1.5 h
 44
                © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Fire and Sound Resistance Tables
Type of Wall
Wall Number
Table 9.10.3.1.-A (Continued)
Description
Fire-Resistance Rating(2)(3) Typical Sound Loadbearing Non- Transmission
Loadbearing Class(2)(4)(5)
Division B 9-346
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
S7a S7b
S8a S8b S8c S8d
S9a S9b S9c S9d S9e
S7 with
• 150 mm thick absorptive material(6) • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
S7 with
• no absorptive material
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
45 min
– [1 h(8)] 51
– 45 min 41
S8with 1h
• 150 mm thick absorptive material(6) – [1.5 h(8)] 55 • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
S8with 1h
• 150 mm thick absorptive material(6) • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
S8 with
• no absorptive material
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
S8 with
• no absorptive material
• 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
S9 with
• 150 mm thick absorptive material(6) • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
S9 with
• 150 mm thick absorptive material(6) • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
S9 with
• 150 mm thick absorptive material(6) • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board(7)
S9 with
• no absorptive material
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
S9 with
• no absorptive material
• 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
– [1.5 h(8)] 54 – 1h 45
– 1h 44
– 2h 59 – 1.5 h 57 – 1h 53 – 2h 49 – 1.5 h 47
      S6k
S6 with
• studs spaced 600 mm o.c.
• no absorptive material
• 12.7 mm regular gypsum board(7)
  –
 1h
 41
  S6l
S6 with
• studs spaced 400 mm o.c.
• no absorptive material
• 12.7 mm regular gypsum board(7)
  –
 1h
 39
  S7
• 31 mm x 152 mm steel studs spaced 400 mm or 600 mm o.c.
• with or without absorptive material
• 1 layer of gypsum board on each side
    GG00024A
          S8
• 31 mm x 152 mm steel studs spaced 400 mm or 600 mm o.c.
• with or without absorptive material
• 1 layer of gypsum board on one side
• 2 layers of gypsum board on other side
    GG00025A
         S9
• 31 mm x 152 mm steel studs spaced 400 mm or 600 mm o.c.
• with or without absorptive material
• 2 layers of gypsum board on each side
      GG00026A
        © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Type of Wall
• Loadbearing Steel Studs
•0.84mmto1.52mm Thickness
Loadbearing
–
1 h
45 min [1 h] –
1 h
1 h
–
Non- Transmission Loadbearing Class(2)(4)(5)
Wall Number
Table 9.10.3.1.-A (Continued)
Description
Fire-Resistance Rating(2)(3) Typical Sound
S9 with
S9f • no absorptive material
• 12.7 mm regular gypsum board(7)
S10 with
S10a • 89 mm thick absorptive material(6)
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
S10 with
S10b • 89 mm thick absorptive material(6)
• 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
S10 with
S10c • 89 mm thick absorptive material(6)
• 12.7 mm regular gypsum board(7)
S10 with
S10d • no absorptive material
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
S10 with
S10e • no absorptive material
• 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
S10 with
S10f • no absorptive material
• 12.7 mm regular gypsum board(7)
1 h
– – – – – –
43
38
38
36
36
35
34
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Division B
9-347
Fire and Sound Resistance Tables
      S10
• 41 mm x 92 mm loadbearing steel studs spaced 400 mm or 600 mm o.c.
• with or without cross-bracing on one side • with or without absorptive material
• 2 layers gypsum board on each side
    GG00028A
           S11
• 41 mm x 92 mm loadbearing steel studs spaced 400 mm or 600 mm o.c.
• with or without cross-bracing on one side • with or without absorptive material
• resilient metal channels on one side
• 1 layer gypsum board on each side
    GG00029A
  S11a
S11 with
• 89 mm thick absorptive material(6)
• resilient metal channels spaced at 600 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
  –
 –
 50
  S11b
S11 with
• 89 mm thick absorptive material(6)
• resilient metal channels spaced at 400 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
  –
 –
 47
  S11c
S11 with
• no absorptive material
• resilient metal channels spaced at 600 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
  –
 –
 41
  S11d
S11 with
• 89 mm thick absorptive material(6)
• resilient metal channels spaced at 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
  –
 –
 47
  S11e
S11 with
• 89 mm thick absorptive material(6)
• resilient metal channels spaced at 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
  –
 –
 45
  S11f
S11 with
• no absorptive material(6)
• resilient metal channels spaced at 400 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
  –
 –
 39
               © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Fire and Sound Resistance Tables
Wall Type of Wall Number
Table 9.10.3.1.-A (Continued)
Fire-Resistance Rating(2)(3) Typical Sound Description Loadbearing Non- Transmission
Loadbearing Class(2)(4)(5)
Division B 9-348
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
                S11g
S11 with
• no absorptive material(6)
• resilient metal channels spaced at 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
  –
 –
 36
  S11h
S11 with
• no absorptive material(6)
• resilient metal channels spaced at 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
  –
 –
 38
  S12
• 41 mm x 92 mm loadbearing steel studs spaced 400 mm or 600 mm o.c.
• with or without cross-bracing on one side
• with or without absorptive material
• resilient metal channels on one side
• 2 layers gypsum board on resilient channel side • 1 layer gypsum board on other side
    GG00030A
  S12a
S12 with
• 89 mm thick absorptive material(6)
• resilient metal channels spaced at 600 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
  –
 –
 54
  S12b
S12 with
• no absorptive material
• resilient metal channels spaced at 600 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
  –
 –
 46
  S12c
S12 with
• 89 mm thick absorptive material(6)
• resilient metal channels spaced at 400 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
  –
 –
 52
  S12d
S12 with
• no absorptive material
• resilient metal channels spaced at 400 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
  –
 –
 43
  S12e
S12 with
• 89 mm thick absorptive material(6)
• resilient metal channels spaced at 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
  –
 –
 52
  S12f
S12 with
• no absorptive material
• resilient metal channels spaced at 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
  –
 –
 43
  S12g
S12 with
• 89 mm thick absorptive material(6)
• resilient metal channels spaced at 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
  –
 –
 50
  S12h
S12 with
• no absorptive material
• resilient metal channels spaced at 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
  –
 –
 41
  S13
• 41 mm x 92 mm loadbearing steel studs spaced 400 mm or 600 mm o.c.
• with or without absorptive material
• resilient metal channels on one side spaced at
400 mm o.c.
• 2 layers gypsum board on resilient channel side
• 1 layer shear membrane and 1 layer gypsum board on
other side
     GG00096A
               © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Fire and Sound Resistance Tables
Table 9.10.3.1.-A (Continued)
Wall Fire-Resistance Rating(2)(3) Typical Sound Type of Wall Number Description Loadbearing Non- Transmission
Loadbearing Class(2)(4)(5)
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-349
                 S13a
S13 with
• 89 mm thick absorptive material(6) • 12.7 mm OSB shear membrane
• 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
  30 min
 –
 57
  S14
• 41 mm x 92 mm loadbearing steel studs spaced 400 mm or 600 mm o.c.
• with or without absorptive material
• resilient metal channels on one side • 2 layers gypsum board on each side
     GG00031A
  S14a
S14 with
• 89 mm thick absorptive material(6)
• resilient metal channels spaced at 600 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
  1h
 –
 60
  S14b
S14 with
• 89 mm thick absorptive material(6)
• resilient metal channels spaced at 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
  45 min [1 h]
 –
 57
  S14c
S14 with
• 89 mm thick absorptive material(6)
• resilient metal channels spaced at 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board(7)
  –
 –
 54
  S14d
S14 with
• no absorptive material
• resilient metal channels spaced at 600 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
  1h
 –
 51
  S14e
S14 with
• studs at 400 mm o.c.
• no absorptive material
• resilient metal channels spaced at 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
  1h
 –
 49
  S14f
S14 with
• studs at 600 mm o.c.
• no absorptive material
• resilient metal channels spaced at 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board(7)
  1h
 –
 50
  S14g
S14 with
• no absorptive material
• resilient metal channels spaced at 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board(7)
  –
 –
 45
  S14h
S14 with
• studs at 400 mm o.c.
• 89 mm thick absorptive material
• resilient metal channels spaced at 400 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
  1h
 –
 58
  S14i
S14 with
• studs at 600 mm o.c.
• 89 mm thick absorptive material
• resilient metal channels spaced at 400 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
  1h
 –
 60
  S14j
S14 with
• 89 mm thick absorptive material
• resilient metal channels spaced at 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
  45 min [1 h]
 –
 55
  S14k
S14 with
• studs at 400 mm o.c.
• no absorptive material
• resilient metal channels spaced at 400 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
  1h
 –
 49
              © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

               Fire and Sound Resistance Tables
Type of Wall
Loadbearing
Non- Transmission Loadbearing Class(2)(4)(5)
• Hollow Concrete Block (Normal
Weight Aggregate)
S15a S15b S15c S15d
B1a B1b
B2a
B2c B2d B2e
S15 with
• 89 mm thick absorptive material in each cavity • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
S15 with
• no absorptive material
• 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
S15 with
• 89 mm thick absorptive material in each cavity • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
S15 with
• no absorptive material
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
• 140 mm bare concrete block(5) • 190 mm bare concrete block(5)
B2 with •140mmconcreteblock
• 12.7 mm gypsum-sand plaster
B2 with
• 140 mm concrete block
• 12.7 mm regular gypsum board(7)
B2 with
• 190 mm concrete block
• 12.7 mm gypsum-sand plaster
B2 with
•190mmconcreteblock
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
1 h 1 h 1 h 1.5 h
1 h 1.5 h
2 h
1.5 h 2.5 h 3 h
– 68 – 52 – 68 – 52
1 h 48 1.5 h 50
2 h 50
1.5 h 46 2.5 h 51 3 h 50
Division B 9-350
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Wall Number
Table 9.10.3.1.-A (Continued)
Description
Fire-Resistance Rating(2)(3) Typical Sound
      S14l
S14 with
• studs at 600 mm o.c.
• no absorptive material
• resilient metal channels spaced at 400 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
  1h
 –
 51
  S14m
S14 with
• no absorptive material
• resilient metal channels spaced at 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
  1h
 –
 47
  S15
• 2 rows of 92 mm loadbearing steel studs spaced 400 mm or 600 mm o.c.
• with cross-bracing
• with or without absorptive material • 2 layers of gypsum board each side
    GG00097A
                B1
• 140 mm or 190 mm concrete block
    GG00001A
                           B2
•140 mm or 190 mm concrete block
• no absorptive material
• 1 layer gypsum-sand plaster or gypsum board on each
side
   GG00002A
                        B2b
B2 with
• 140 mm concrete block
• 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board or 15.9 mm
Type X gypsum board(7)
  2h
 2h
 47
     © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Type of Wall
Loadbearing
2.5 h 2h
Non- Transmission Loadbearing Class(2)(4)(5)
Wall Number
Table 9.10.3.1.-A (Continued)
Description
Fire-Resistance Rating(2)(3) Typical Sound
B2 with
B2f • 190 mm concrete block
• 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
B2 with
B2g • 190 mm concrete block
• 12.7 mm regular gypsum board(7)
2.5 h 2h
49 48
B3 with
B3b • 140 mm concrete block
• 12.7 mm regular gypsum board(7)(9)
B3 with
B3c • 190 mm concrete block
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
B3 with
B3d • 190 mm concrete block
• 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
B3 with
B3e • 190 mm concrete block
• 12.7 mm regular gypsum board(7)(9)
1.5 h 3h 2.5 h 2h
1.5 h 3h 2.5 h 2h
48 54 53 51
B4 with
B4b • 140 mm concrete block
• 12.7 mm regular gypsum board(7)(9)
B4 with
B4c • 190 mm concrete block
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
B4 with
B4d • 190 mm concrete block
• 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
B4 with
B4e •190 mm concrete block
•12.7 mm regular gypsum board(7)(9)
1.5 h 3h 2.5 h 2 h
1.5 h 3h 2.5 h 2 h
42 50 49 45
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Division B
9-351
Fire and Sound Resistance Tables
      B3
• 140 mm or 190 mm concrete block
• resilient metal channels on one side spaced at 400 mm
or 600 mm o.c.
• absorptive material filling resilient metal channel
space(6)
• 1 layer gypsum board on each side
   GG00003A
                          B3a
B3 with
• 140 mm concrete block
• 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board or 15.9 mm
Type X gypsum board(7)
  2h
 2h
 51
             B4
•140 mm or 190 mm concrete block
• resilient metal channels on each side spaced at 400 mm
or 600 mm o.c.
• with or without absorptive material • 1 layer gypsum board on each side
   GG00004A
                            B4a
B4 with
• 140 mm concrete block
•12.7 mm Type X gypsum board(7), or 15.9 mm Type X
gypsum board(7)
  2h
 2h
 47
             © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

         Fire and Sound Resistance Tables
Type of Wall
Wall Number
B5a B5b B5c
Table 9.10.3.1.-A (Continued)
Description
B5with
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
B5 with
• 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
B5with
• 12.7 mm regular gypsum board(7)(9)
Fire-Resistance Rating(2)(3) Typical Sound Loadbearing Non- Transmission
Loadbearing Class(2)(4)(5)
3h 3h 54 2.5 h 2.5 h 53 2h 2h 51
Division B 9-352
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
B6b B6c B6d B6e
B7a B7b B7c
B6 with
• 140 mm concrete block
• 12.7 mm regular gypsum board(7)(9)
B6 with
•190mmconcreteblock
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
B6 with
• 190 mm concrete block
• 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
B6 with •190mmconcreteblock
• 12.7 regular gypsum board(7)(9)
B7with
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
B7 with
• 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
B7with
• 12.7 mm regular gypsum board(7)(9)
1.5 h 3 h 2.5 h 2 h
1.5 h 56 3 h 60 2.5 h 59 2 h 57
3h 3h 71 2.5 h 2.5 h 70 2h 2h 69
       B5
• 190 mm concrete block
• 38 mm x 38 mm horizontal or vertical wood strapping
on one side spaced at 600 mm o.c. • with or without absorptive material
• 1 layer gypsum board on each side
     GG00005A
                                  B6
• 140 mm or 190 mm concrete block
• 38 mm x 38 mm horizontal or vertical wood strapping
on each side spaced at 600 mm o.c.
• absorptive material filling strapping space on each
side(6)
• 1 layer gypsum board on each side
     GG00006A
                     B6a
B6 with
• 140 mm concrete block
• 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board or 15.9 mm Type X
gypsum board(7)
  2h
 2h
 57
             B7
• 190 mm concrete block
• 65 mm steel studs each side spaced at 600 mm o.c. • absorptive material filling stud space on each side(6) • 1 layer gypsum board on each side
     GG00007A
                                    © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Type of Wall
Wall Number
Table 9.10.3.1.-A (Continued)
Description
Fire-Resistance Rating(2)(3) Typical Sound Loadbearing Non- Transmission
Loadbearing Class(2)(4)(5)
3h 3h 71 2.5 h 2.5 h 70 2h 2h 69
3h 3h 65 2.5 h 2.5 h 64 2h 2h 63
Notes to Table 9.10.3.1.-A:
B8a B8with
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
B8b B8 with
• 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
B8c B8with
• 12.7 mm regular gypsum board(7)(9)
B9a B9with
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
B9b B9 with
• 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
B9c B9with
• 12.7 mm regular gypsum board(7)(9)
B10a B10 with
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
B10b B10 with
• 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board(7)
B10c B10 with
• 12.7 mm regular gypsum board(7)
3 h 2.5 h 2 h
3 h 56 2.5 h 55 2 h 54
Fire and Sound Resistance Tables
(1) See Note A-9.10.3.1.
(2) Fire-resistance ratings and STC ratings of wood-frame construction were evaluated only for constructions with solid-sawn 38 mm x 89 mm lumber.
However, the fire-resistance ratings and STC ratings provided for 38 mm x 89 mm wood-frame construction may be applied to wood-frame constructions with solid-sawn 38 mm x 140 mm lumber; in some cases the ratings may be conservative. Where 38 mm x 140 mm framing is used and absorptive material is called for, the absorptive material must be 140 mm thick. (See D-1.2.1.(2) in Appendix D for the significance of fire-resistance ratings.) The STC ratings may also be applied to fingerjoined lumber. The fire-resistance ratings are applicable to constructions using fingerjoined lumber that has been manufactured with a heat-resistant adhesive (HRA) in accordance with NLGA special product standard SPS-1, “Fingerjoined Structural Lumber,” or SPS-3, “Fingerjoined "Vertical Stud Use Only" Lumber.” (See also A-9.23.10.4.(1).)
(3) For all fire-resistance ratings, the given spacing for framing is a maximum value.
(4) Sound ratings listed are based on the most reliable laboratory test data available for specimens conforming to installation details required by
CSA A82.31-M, “Gypsum Board Application.” Results of specific tests may differ slightly because of measurement precision and minor variations in construction details. These results should only be used where the actual construction details, including spacing of fasteners and supporting framing, correspond exactly to the details of the test specimens on which the ratings are based. Assemblies with sound transmission class ratings
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-353
       B8
• 190 mm concrete block
• 38 mm x 64 mm wood studs on each side spaced at
600 mm o.c.
• absorptive material filling stud space on each side(6) • 1 layer gypsum board on each side
     GG00008A
                                   B9
• 190 mm concrete block
• 50 mm metal Z-bars on each side spaced at 600 mm
o.c. (or 38 mm x 38 mm horizontal or vertical wood
strapping plus resilient metal channels)
• absorptive material filling Z-bar space on each side(6) • 1 layer gypsum board on each side
     GG00009A
                                      B10
• 190 mm concrete block
• resilient metal channels on one side spaced at 600 mm
o.c.
• absorptive material filling resilient metal channel
space(6)
• 2 layers gypsum board on one side only
   GG00010A
                                 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Fire and Sound Resistance Tables
Table 9.10.3.1.-A (Continued)
of 50 or more require acoustical sealant applied around electrical boxes and other openings, and at the junction of intersecting walls and floors,
except intersection of walls constructed of concrete or solid masonry units where the masonry joints at the intersection are mortared.
(5) Sound ratings are only valid where there are no discernible cracks or voids in the visible surfaces. For concrete blocks, surfaces must be sealed by
at least 2 coats of paint or other surface finish described in Section 9.29. to prevent sound leakage.
(6) Sound absorptive material includes fibre processed from rock, slag, glass or cellulose fibre. It must fill at least 90% of the cavity thickness for the
wall to have the listed STC value. The absorptive material should not overfill the cavity to the point of producing significant outward pressure on the finishes; such an assembly will not achieve the STC rating. Where the absorptive material used with steel stud assemblies is in batt form, “steel stud batts,” which are wide enough to fill the cavity from the web of one stud to the web of the adjacent stud, must be used.
(7) The complete descriptions of indicated finishes are as follows:
• 12.7mmregulargypsumboard–12.7mmregulargypsumboardconformingtoArticle9.29.5.2.
• 12.7mmTypeXgypsumboard–12.7mmspecialfire-resistantTypeXgypsumboardconformingtoArticle9.29.5.2.
• 15.9mmTypeXgypsumboard–15.9mmspecialfire-resistantTypeXgypsumboardconformingtoArticle9.29.5.2.
• Exceptforexteriorwalls(seeNote9),theouterlayeroffinishonbothsidesofthewallmusthaveitsjointstapedandfinished. • FastenertypesandspacingmustconformtoCSAA82.31-M,“GypsumBoardApplication.”
(8) Absorptive material required for the higher fire-resistance rating is mineral fibre processed from rock or slag with a mass of at least 4.8 kg/m2 for 150 mm thickness, 2.8 kg/m2 for 89 mm thickness and 2.0 kg/m2 for 65 mm thickness and completely filling the wall cavity. For assemblies with double wood studs on separate plates, absorptive material is required in the stud cavities on both sides.
(9) Regular gypsum board used in single layer assemblies must be installed so all edges are supported.
(10) Where bracing material, such as diagonal lumber or plywood, OSB, gypsum board or fibreboard sheathing is installed on the inner face of one
row of studs in double stud assemblies, the STC rating will be reduced by 3 for any assemblies containing absorptive material in both rows of studs or in the row of studs opposite to that to which the bracing material is attached. Attaching such layers on both inner faces of the studs may drastically reduce the STC value but enough data to permit assignment of STC ratings for this situation is not available. The fire-resistance rating is not affected by the inclusion of such bracing.
(11) For exterior walls, the finish joints must be taped and finished for the outer layer of the interior side only. The gypsum board on the exterior side may be replaced with gypsum sheathing of the same thickness and type (regular or Type X).
(12) Includes any exterior wall sheathing and cladding combination allowed under Part 9 other than foamed plastic sheathing. The cladding portion can include foamed plastic outboard of noncombustible, structural wood-based or gypsum-based sheathing conforming to the minimum thicknesses listed in Table 9.23.17.2.-A.
(13) Includes any exterior wall sheathing listed in Table 9.23.17.2.-A and masonry veneer cladding conforming to Section 9.20. Foamed plastic sheathing is permitted in EW1d and EW2b walls without the use of other sheathing, provided it is directly attached to the framing.
(14) The glass fibre insulation filling the cavity shall have a mass per unit area of not less than 1.0 kg/m2 of wall surface.
Division B 9-354 National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Floors and Ceilings Concrete Slabs
Wood Floor Joists(12)
F1a • 90 mm reinforced concrete with 20 mm minimum cover over reinforcing steel
F1b • 130 mm reinforced concrete with 25 mm minimum cover over reinforcing steel
F1c • pre-stressed hollow core slab 200 mm deep with 25 mm minimum cover over reinforcing steel
F1d • 150 mm composite slab on 75 mm steel deck with 152 x 152 x MW3.8 x MW3.8 wire mesh
1 h 2 h 1 h -
47 23 52 27
50 28
51 21
F3 with
F3a • no absorptive material in cavity
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
F3 with
F3b • absorptive material in cavity
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
- -
29 27 31 30
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Division B
9-355
Fire and Sound Resistance Tables
Table 9.10.3.1.-B
Fire and Sound Resistance of Floors, Ceilings and Roofs(1)
Forming Part of Article 5.8.1.3., Sentences 9.10.3.1.(1) and 9.10.5.1.(4), and Article 9.11.1.3.
 Type of Assembly
  Assem- bly Num- ber
Description(2)(3)(4)
 Fire-
Resistance Rating(5)(6)(7)(8)
  Typical Sound Transmission
Class(5)(6)(9)(10) (STC)
 Typical Impact Insulation Class(5)(9)(11)
(IIC)
      F1
• concrete floors
     GC00100A
        F1e
• 150 mm composite slab on 75 mm steel deck with 152 x 152 x MW3.8 x MW3.8 wire mesh
• resilient metal channels 400 mm or 600 mm o.c.
• 2 layers of 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board or 2 layers
of 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 1.5 h
  57
 36
 Open Web Steel Joists
    F2
• open web steel joists with concrete floor
       GG00101A
  F2a
• 50 mm thick concrete deck
• on open web steel joists spaced 400 mm o.c.
• furring channels spaced not more than 600 mm o.c.
wired to underside of joists
• 1 layer of 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board on ceiling side
 45 min
  53
 27
  F2b
• 65 mm regular concrete minimum 155 kg/m 2
• on composite steel joists spaced 1250 mm o.c.
• furring channels spaced not more than 600 mm o.c.
wired to underside of joists
• 1 layer of 12.7 mm or 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
on ceiling side
 1.5 h
  53
 28
  F3(13)
• subfloor of 15.5 mm plywood, OSB or waferboard, or 17 mm tongue and groove lumber
• on wood joists or wood I-joists spaced not more than 600 mm o.c.
• with or without absorptive material in cavity • 1 layer of gypsum board on ceiling side
      GG00102A
          © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Fire and Sound Resistance Tables
Division B 9-356
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
F3c F3d F3e F3f
Table 9.10.3.1.-B (Continued)
F3 with
• no absorptive material in cavity • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
F3 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
F3 with
• no absorptive material in cavity • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
F3 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
- 27 26 - 29 29 - 27 25 - 29 28
 Type of Assembly
  Assem- bly Num- ber
Description(2)(3)(4)
 Fire-
Resistance Rating(5)(6)(7)(8)
  Typical Sound Transmission
Class(5)(6)(9)(10) (STC)
 Typical Impact Insulation Class(5)(9)(11)
(IIC)
        F4(13)
• subfloor of 15.5 mm plywood, OSB or waferboard, or 17 mm tongue and groove lumber
• on wood joists or wood I-joists spaced not more than 600 mm o.c.
• with or without absorptive material in cavity • 2 layers of gypsum board on ceiling side
       !
  F4a
F4 with
• wood joists or wood I-joists spaced 400 mm o.c. • no absorptive material in cavity
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  33
 31
  F4b
F4 with
• wood joists or wood I-joists spaced 600 mm o.c. • no absorptive material in cavity
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  34
 31
  F4c
F4 with
• wood joists or wood I-joists spaced 400 mm o.c. • absorptive material in cavity
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 45 min [1 h](14)
  35
 34
  F4d
F4 with
• wood joists or wood I-joists spaced 600 mm o.c. • absorptive material in cavity
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 45 min
  38
 34
  F4e
F4 with
• wood joists or wood I-joists spaced 400 mm o.c. • no absorptive material in cavity
• 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  32
 30
  F4f
F4 with
• wood joists or wood I-joists spaced 400 mm o.c. • no absorptive material in cavity
• 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 45 min
  33
 30
  F4g
F4 with
• wood joists or wood I-joists spaced 400 mm o.c. • absorptive material in cavity
• 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 45 min
  34
 33
  F4h
F4 with
• wood joists or wood I-joists spaced 600 mm o.c. • absorptive material in cavity
• 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  35
 33
                   © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Table 9.10.3.1.-B (Continued)
F4 with
F4i • no absorptive material in cavity -
• 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
F4 with
F4j • absorptive material in cavity -
• 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
31 30 33 33
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Division B
9-357
Fire and Sound Resistance Tables
 Type of Assembly
  Assem- bly Num- ber
Description(2)(3)(4)
 Fire-
Resistance Rating(5)(6)(7)(8)
  Typical Sound Transmission
Class(5)(6)(9)(10) (STC)
 Typical Impact Insulation Class(5)(9)(11)
(IIC)
      F5(13)
• subfloor of 15.5 mm plywood, OSB or waferboard, or 17 mm tongue and groove lumber
• on wood joists or wood I-joists spaced not more than 600 mm o.c.
• with or without absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 400 mm or 600 mm o.c. • 1 layer of gypsum board on ceiling side
      !
  F5a
F5 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum
 30 min
  35
 37
  F5b
F5 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 600 mm o.c • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 30 min
  37
 30
  F5c
F5 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 30 min [45 min](15)
  38
 30
  F5d
F5 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 30 min
  40
 33
  F5e
F5 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 30 min
  33
 26
  F5f
F5 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 30 min
  35
 29
  F5g
F5 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 30 min [45 min](15)
  36
 29
  F5h
F5 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 30 min
  38
 32
  F5i
F5 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 < 30 min
  33
 25
  F5j
F5 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 < 30 min
  35
 28
                       © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Fire and Sound Resistance Tables
Table 9.10.3.1.-B (Continued)
Division B 9-358 National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
 Type of Assembly
  Assem- bly Num- ber
Description(2)(3)(4)
 Fire-
Resistance Rating(5)(6)(7)(8)
  Typical Sound Transmission
Class(5)(6)(9)(10) (STC)
 Typical Impact Insulation Class(5)(9)(11)
(IIC)
              F5k
F5 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 < 30 min
  36
 28
  F5l
F5 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 < 30 min
  38
 33
  F6(13)
• subfloor of 15.5 mm plywood, OSB or waferboard, or 17 mm tongue and groove lumber
• on wood joists or wood I-joists spaced not more than 600 mm o.c.
• with or without absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 400 mm or 600 mm o.c. • 2 layers of gypsum board on ceiling side
      !"
  F6a(16)
F6 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum boad
 1h
  39
 32
  F6b(16)
F6 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  41
 32
  F6c(16)
F6 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  42
 35
  F6d(16)
F6 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  44
 37
  F6e(16)
F6 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  38
 30
  F6f(16)
F6 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  40
 33
  F6g(16)
F6 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  41
 33
  F6h(16)
F6 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 45 min [1 h](17)
  43
 36
  F6i
F6 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  37
 30
               © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Fire and Sound Resistance Tables
Table 9.10.3.1.-B (Continued)
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-359
 Type of Assembly
  Assem- bly Num- ber
Description(2)(3)(4)
 Fire-
Resistance Rating(5)(6)(7)(8)
  Typical Sound Transmission
Class(5)(6)(9)(10) (STC)
 Typical Impact Insulation Class(5)(9)(11)
(IIC)
            F6j
F6 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  39
 33
  F6k
F6 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  40
 33
  F6l
F6 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  42
 36
  F7(13)
• subfloor of 15.5 mm plywood, OSB or waferboard, or 17 mm tongue and groove lumber
• on wood joists or wood I-joists spaced not more than 600 mm o.c.
• with or without absorptive material in cavity
• 1 layer of gypsum board attached directly to joists on
ceiling side
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm or 600 mm o.c.
attached to joists through gypsum board
• 1 layer of gypsum board attached to resilient metal
channels
        !
  F7a(16)
F7 with
• no absorptive material in cavity • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board • resilient metal channels
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  35
 27
  F7b(16)
F7 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board • resilient metal channels
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  37
 30
  F7c(16)
F7 with
• no absorptive material in cavity • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board • resilient metal channels
• 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  35
 27
  F7d(16)
F7 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board • resilient metal channels
• 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  37
 30
  F7e
F7 with
• no absorptive material in cavity • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board • resilient metal channels
• 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  32
 26
  F7f
F7 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• 12.7 mm regular gypsum board • resilient metal channels
• 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  35
 28
              © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Fire and Sound Resistance Tables
Table 9.10.3.1.-B (Continued)
Division B 9-360 National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
 Type of Assembly
  Assem- bly Num- ber
Description(2)(3)(4)
 Fire-
Resistance Rating(5)(6)(7)(8)
  Typical Sound Transmission
Class(5)(6)(9)(10) (STC)
 Typical Impact Insulation Class(5)(9)(11)
(IIC)
              F8(13)
• subfloor of 15.5 mm plywood, OSB or waferboard, or 17 mm tongue and groove lumber
• on wood joists or wood I-joists spaced not more than 600 mm o.c.
• with or without absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm or 600 mm o.c. • 1 layer of gypsum board on ceiling side
      !#
  F8a
F8 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 30 min
  41
 33
  F8b
F8 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 30 min
  43
 36
  F8c
F8 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 30 min [45 min](15)
  48
 41
  F8d
F8 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 30 min
  50
 44
  F8e
F8 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 30 min
  39
 32
  F8f
F8 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 30 min
  41
 35
  F8g
F8 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 30 min [45 min](15)
  46
 40
  F8h
F8 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 30 min
  48
 43
  F8i
F8 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 < 30 min
  41
 31
  F8j
F8 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 < 30 min
  41
 34
  F8k
F8 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 < 30 min
  46
 39
              © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Fire and Sound Resistance Tables
Table 9.10.3.1.-B (Continued)
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-361
 Type of Assembly
  Assem- bly Num- ber
Description(2)(3)(4)
 Fire-
Resistance Rating(5)(6)(7)(8)
  Typical Sound Transmission
Class(5)(6)(9)(10) (STC)
 Typical Impact Insulation Class(5)(9)(11)
(IIC)
              F8l
F8 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 < 30 min
  48
 42
  F9(13)
• subfloor of 15.5 mm plywood, OSB or waferboard, or 17 mm tongue and groove lumber
• on wood joists or wood I-joists spaced not more than 600 mm o.c.
• with or without absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm or 600 mm o.c. • 2 layers of gypsum board on ceiling side
      !
  F9a(16)
F9 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  45
 38
  F9b(16)
F9 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  47
 40
  F9c(16)
F9 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h [1.5 h](18)
  52 [54](18)
 46
  F9d(16)
F9 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h [1.5 h](18)
  54 [56](18)
 48
  F9e(16)
F9 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  44
 36
  F9f(16)
F9 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  46
 39
  F9g(16)
F9 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h [1.5 h](18)
  51 [53](18)
 44
  F9h(16)
F9 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 45 min [1 h](17)
  53
 47
  F9i
F9 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  43
 36
  F9j
F9 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  45
 39
               © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Fire and Sound Resistance Tables
Table 9.10.3.1.-B (Continued)
Division B 9-362 National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
 Type of Assembly
  Assem- bly Num- ber
Description(2)(3)(4)
 Fire-
Resistance Rating(5)(6)(7)(8)
  Typical Sound Transmission
Class(5)(6)(9)(10) (STC)
 Typical Impact Insulation Class(5)(9)(11)
(IIC)
              F9k
F9 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  50
 44
  F9l
F9 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  52
 47
  F10(13)
• one subfloor layer of 11 mm sanded plywood, or OSB or waferboard
• one subfloor layer of 15.5 mm plywood, OSB or waferboard, or 17 mm tongue and groove lumber
• on wood joists or wood I-joists spaced not more than 600 mm o.c.
• with or without absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 300, 400 or
600 mm o.c.
• 1 layer of gypsum board on ceiling side
      !$
  F10a
F10 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 30 min
  44
 34
  F10b
F10 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 30 min
  46
 37
  F10c
F10 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 30 min [45 min](17)
  51
 42
  F10d
F10 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 30 min [45 min](15)
  53
 45
  F10e
F10 with
• wood joists spaced at 400 mm o.c.
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 1 h(19)
  53(19)
 44
  F10f(20)
F10 with
• wood I-joists spaced at 400 mm o.c.
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 300 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 1 h(19)
  52(19)
 43
  F10g
F10 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 30 min
  42
 33
  F10h
F10 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 30 min
  44
 36
  F10i
F10 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 30 min [45 min](17)
  49
 41
               © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Fire and Sound Resistance Tables
Table 9.10.3.1.-B (Continued)
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-363
 Type of Assembly
  Assem- bly Num- ber
Description(2)(3)(4)
 Fire-
Resistance Rating(5)(6)(7)(8)
  Typical Sound Transmission
Class(5)(6)(9)(10) (STC)
 Typical Impact Insulation Class(5)(9)(11)
(IIC)
              F10j
F10 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 30 min [45 min](15)
  51
 44
  F10k
F10 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  42
 33
  F10l
F10 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  44
 35
  F10m
F10 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  49
 41
  F10n
F10 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  51
 43
  F11(13)
• one subfloor layer of 11 mm sanded plywood, or OSB or waferboard
• one subfloor layer of 15.5 mm plywood, OSB or waferboard, or 17 mm tongue and groove lumber
• on wood joists or wood I-joists spaced not more than 600 mm o.c.
• with or without absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm or 600 mm o.c. • 2 layers of gypsum board on ceiling side
      !
  F11a(16)
F11 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  48
 39
  F11b(16)
F11 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  50
 42
  F11c(16)
F11 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h [1.5 h](18)
  55 [56](18)
 47
  F11d(16)
F11 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h [1.5 h](18)
  57 [58](18)
 50
  F11e(16)
F11 with
• wood joists spaced 400 mm o.c.
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 1.5 h(21)
  56(21)
 47
  F11f(20)
F11 with
• wood I-joists spaced 400 mm o.c.
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 300 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 1.5 h(21)
  56(21)
 46
               © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Fire and Sound Resistance Tables
Division B 9-364
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
F12a F12b F12c F12d
F12 with
• no absorptive material in cavity • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
F12 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
F12 with
• no absorptive material in cavity • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
F12 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
- 41 13 - 43 16 - 39 12 - 41 15
Table 9.10.3.1.-B (Continued)
 Type of Assembly
  Assem- bly Num- ber
Description(2)(3)(4)
 Fire-
Resistance Rating(5)(6)(7)(8)
  Typical Sound Transmission
Class(5)(6)(9)(10) (STC)
 Typical Impact Insulation Class(5)(9)(11)
(IIC)
  F11g(16)
F11 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  47
 38
  F11h(16)
F11 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  49
 40
  F11i(16)
F11 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h [1.5 h](18)
  54 [55](18)
 46
  F11j(16)
F11 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 45 min [1 h](17)
  56
 48
  F11k
F11 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  46
 37
  F11l
F11 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  48
 40
  F11m
F11 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  53
 45
  F11n
F11 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  55
 48
  F12(13)
• 25 mm gypsum-concrete topping (at least 44 kg/m 2) • subfloor of 15.5 mm plywood, OSB or waferboard, or
17 mm tongue and groove lumber
• on wood joists or wood I-joists spaced not more than
600 mm o.c.
• with or without absorptive material in cavity • 1 layer of gypsum board on ceiling side
      !
                         © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Table 9.10.3.1.-B (Continued)
F12 with
F12e • no absorptive material in cavity
• 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
F12 with
F12f • absorptive material in cavity
• 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
- 39 12 - 41 15
F13 with
F13i • no absorptive material in cavity
• 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
F13 with
F13j • absorptive material in cavity
• 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
- 41 14
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Division B
9-365
Fire and Sound Resistance Tables
-
45 14
 Type of Assembly
  Assem- bly Num- ber
Description(2)(3)(4)
 Fire-
Resistance Rating(5)(6)(7)(8)
  Typical Sound Transmission
Class(5)(6)(9)(10) (STC)
 Typical Impact Insulation Class(5)(9)(11)
(IIC)
      F13(13)
• 25 mm gypsum-concrete topping (at least 44 kg/m2) • subfloor of 15.5 mm plywood, OSB or waferboard, or
17 mm tongue and groove lumber
• on wood joists or wood I-joists spaced not more than
600 mm o.c.
• with or without absorptive material in cavity • 2 layers of gypsum board on ceiling side
         !
  F13a
F13 with
• wood joists or wood I-joists spaced 400 mm o.c. • no absorptive material in cavity
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  43
 16
  F13b
F13 with
• wood joists or wood I-joists spaced 600 mm o.c. • no absorptive material in cavity
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  45
 16
  F13c
F13 with
• wood joists or wood I-joists spaced 400 mm o.c. • absorptive material in cavity
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 45 min [1 h](14)
  45
 19
  F13d
F13 with
• wood joists or wood I-joists spaced 600 mm o.c. • absorptive material in cavity
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 45 min
  47
 19
  F13e
F13 with
• wood joists or wood I-joists spaced 400 mm o.c. • no absorptive material in cavity
• 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  42
 15
  F13f
F13 with
• wood joists or wood I-joists spaced 600 mm o.c. • no absorptive material in cavity
• 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 45 min
  44
 15
  F13g
F13 with
• wood joists or wood I-joists spaced 400 mm o.c. • absorptive material in cavity
• 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 45 min
  44
 18
  F13h
F13 with
• wood joists or wood I-joists spaced 600 mm o.c. • no absorptive material in cavity
• 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  46
 18
                      © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Fire and Sound Resistance Tables
Table 9.10.3.1.-B (Continued)
Division B 9-366 National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
 Type of Assembly
  Assem- bly Num- ber
Description(2)(3)(4)
 Fire-
Resistance Rating(5)(6)(7)(8)
  Typical Sound Transmission
Class(5)(6)(9)(10) (STC)
 Typical Impact Insulation Class(5)(9)(11)
(IIC)
              F14(13)
• 25 mm gypsum-concrete topping (at least 44 kg/m2) • subfloor of 15.5 mm plywood, OSB or waferboard, or
17 mm tongue and groove lumber
• on wood joists or wood I-joists spaced not more than
600 mm o.c.
• with or without absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 300, 400 or
600 mm o.c.
• 1 layer of gypsum board on ceiling side
      !
  F14a
F14 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  53
 22
  F14b
F14 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  55
 22
  F14c
F14 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 30 min [45 min](17)
  60
 30
  F14d
F14 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  62
 30
  F14e
F14 with
• wood joists spaced 400 mm o.c.
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 1 h(19)
  60(19)
 31
  F14f(20)
F14 with
• wood I-joists spaced 400 mm o.c.
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 300 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 1 h(19)
  61(19)
 31
  F14g
F14 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  51
 21
  F14h
F14 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  53
 21
  F14i
F14 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  58
 29
  F14j
F14 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  60
 29
  F14k
F14 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  51
 21
              © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Fire and Sound Resistance Tables
Table 9.10.3.1.-B (Continued)
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-367
 Type of Assembly
  Assem- bly Num- ber
Description(2)(3)(4)
 Fire-
Resistance Rating(5)(6)(7)(8)
  Typical Sound Transmission
Class(5)(6)(9)(10) (STC)
 Typical Impact Insulation Class(5)(9)(11)
(IIC)
              F14l
F14 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  53
 21
  F14m
F14 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  58
 29
  F14n
F14 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  60
 29
  F15(13)
• 25 mm gypsum-concrete topping (at least 44 kg/m2) • subfloor of 15.5 mm plywood, OSB or waferboard, or
17 mm tongue and groove lumber
• on wood joists or wood I-joists spaced not more than
600 mm o.c.
• with or without absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm or 600 mm o.c. • 2 layers of gypsum board on ceiling side
       !"
  F15a(16)
F15 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 1 h(22)
  57
 25
  F15b(16)
F15 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  59
 25
  F15c(16)
F15 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h [1.5 h](18)
  64 [65](18)
 33
  F15d(16)
F15 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h [1.5 h](18)
  66 [67](18)
 33
  F15e(16)
F15 with
• wood joists spaced 400 mm o.c.
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 1.5 h(21)
  65(21)
 33
  F15f(20)
F15 with
• wood I-joists spaced 400 mm o.c.
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 300 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 1.5 h(21)
  64(21)
 33
  F15g(16)
F15 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  56
 24
  F15h(16)
F15 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  58
 24
               © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Fire and Sound Resistance Tables
Division B 9-368
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
F16a F16b F16c F16d F16e F16f
F 16 with
• no absorptive material in cavity • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
F16 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
F16 with
• no absorptive material in cavity • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
F16 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
F16 with
• no absorptive material in cavity • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
F16 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
- 44 22 - 46 25 - 43 21 - 45 24 - 42 21 - 44 24
Table 9.10.3.1.-B (Continued)
 Type of Assembly
  Assem- bly Num- ber
Description(2)(3)(4)
 Fire-
Resistance Rating(5)(6)(7)(8)
  Typical Sound Transmission
Class(5)(6)(9)(10) (STC)
 Typical Impact Insulation Class(5)(9)(11)
(IIC)
  F15i(16)
F15 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h [1.5 h](18)
  63 [64](18)
 32
  F15j(16)
F15 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 45 min [1 h](17)
  65
 32
  F15k
F15 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  55
 23
  F15l
F15 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  57
 23
  F15m
F15 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  62
 31
  F15n
F15 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  64
 31
  F16(13)
• 38 mm concrete topping (at least 70 kg/m2)
• subfloor of 15.5 mm plywood, OSB or waferboard, or
17 mm tongue and groove lumber
• on wood joists or wood I-joists spaced not more than
600 mm o.c.
• with or without absorptive material in cavity • 1 layer of gypsum board on ceiling side
       !
                        © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 F17 with
F17i • no absorptive material in cavity -
• 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
F17 with
F17j • absorptive material in cavity -
• 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
47 23 49 26
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Division B
9-369
Fire and Sound Resistance Tables
Table 9.10.3.1.-B (Continued)
 Type of Assembly
  Assem- bly Num- ber
Description(2)(3)(4)
 Fire-
Resistance Rating(5)(6)(7)(8)
  Typical Sound Transmission
Class(5)(6)(9)(10) (STC)
 Typical Impact Insulation Class(5)(9)(11)
(IIC)
  F17(13)
• 38 mm concrete topping (at least 70 kg/m2)
• subfloor of 15.5 mm plywood, OSB or waferboard, or
17 mm tongue and groove lumber
• on wood joists or wood I-joists spaced not more than
600 mm o.c.
• with or without absorptive material in cavity • 2 layers of gypsum board on ceiling side
        !#
  F17a
F17 with
• wood joists or wood I-joists spaced 400 mm o.c. • no absorptive material in cavity
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  48
 24
  F17b
F17 with
• wood joists or wood I-joists spaced 600 mm o.c. • no absorptive material in cavity
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  51
 24
  F17c
F17 with
• wood joists or wood I-joists spaced 400 mm o.c. • absorptive material in cavity
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 45 min [1 h](14)
  48
 27
  F17d
F17 with
• wood joists or wood I-joists spaced 600 mm o.c. • absorptive material in cavity
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 45 min
  51
 27
  F17e
F17 with
• wood joists or wood I-joists spaced 400 mm o.c. • no absorptive material in cavity
• 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  47
 23
  F17f
F17 with
• wood joists or wood I-joists spaced 600 mm o.c. • no absorptive material in cavity
• 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 45 min
  48
 23
  F17g
F17 with
• wood joists or wood I-joists spaced 400 mm o.c. • absorptive material in cavity
• 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 45 min
  49
 26
  F17h
F17 with
• wood joists or wood I-joists spaced 600 mm o.c. • absorptive material in cavity
• 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  50
 26
                       © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Fire and Sound Resistance Tables
Table 9.10.3.1.-B (Continued)
Division B 9-370 National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
 Type of Assembly
  Assem- bly Num- ber
Description(2)(3)(4)
 Fire-
Resistance Rating(5)(6)(7)(8)
  Typical Sound Transmission
Class(5)(6)(9)(10) (STC)
 Typical Impact Insulation Class(5)(9)(11)
(IIC)
              F18(13)
• 38 mm concrete topping (at least 70 kg/m 2)
• subfloor of 15.5 mm plywood, OSB or waferboard, or
17 mm tongue and groove lumber
• on wood joists or wood I-joists spaced not more than
600 mm o.c.
• with or without absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 400 mm or 600 mm o.c. • 1 layer of gypsum board on ceiling side
       !
  F18a
F18 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  50
 25
  F18b
F18 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  52
 25
  F18c
F18 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  53
 28
  F18d
F18 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  55
 28
  F18e
F18 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  49
 24
  F18f
F18 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  51
 24
  F18g
F18 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  52
 27
  F18h
F18 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  54
 27
  F18i
F18 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  48
 24
  F18j
F18 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  50
 24
  F18k
F18 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  51
 27
              © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Fire and Sound Resistance Tables
Table 9.10.3.1.-B (Continued)
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-371
 Type of Assembly
  Assem- bly Num- ber
Description(2)(3)(4)
 Fire-
Resistance Rating(5)(6)(7)(8)
  Typical Sound Transmission
Class(5)(6)(9)(10) (STC)
 Typical Impact Insulation Class(5)(9)(11)
(IIC)
              F18l
F18 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  53
 27
  F19(13)
• 38 mm concrete topping (at least 70 kg/m2)
• subfloor of 15.5 mm plywood, OSB or waferboard, or
17 mm tongue and groove lumber
• on wood joists or wood I-joists spaced not more than
600 mm o.c.
• with or without absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 400 mm or 600 mm o.c. • 2 layers of gypsum board on ceiling side
       !$
  F19a(16)
F19 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  54
 27
  F19b(16)
F19 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  56
 27
  F19c(16)
F19 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  57
 30
  F19d(16)
F19 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  59
 30
  F19e(16)
F19 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  53
 26
  F19f(16)
F19 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  55
 26
  F19g(16)
F19 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  56
 29
  F19h(16)
F19 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  58
 29
  F19i
F19 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  53
 26
  F19j
F19 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  55
 26
               © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Fire and Sound Resistance Tables
Table 9.10.3.1.-B (Continued)
Division B 9-372 National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
 Type of Assembly
  Assem- bly Num- ber
Description(2)(3)(4)
 Fire-
Resistance Rating(5)(6)(7)(8)
  Typical Sound Transmission
Class(5)(6)(9)(10) (STC)
 Typical Impact Insulation Class(5)(9)(11)
(IIC)
              F19k
F19 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  56
 29
  F19l
F19 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  58
 29
  F20(13)
• 38 mm concrete topping (at least 70 kg/m2)
• subfloor of 15.5 mm plywood, OSB or waferboard, or
17 mm tongue and groove lumber
• on wood joists or wood I-joists spaced not more than
600 mm o.c.
• with or without absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 300, 400 or
600 mm o.c.
• 1 layer of gypsum board on ceiling side
      !
  F20a
F20 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 45 min(22)
  56
 31
  F20b
F20 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  58
 31
  F20c
F20 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 30 min
[45 min] (17) (22)
  63
 39
  F20d
F20 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  65
 39
  F20e
F20 with
• wood joists spaced 400 mm o.c.
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 1 h(19)
  64(19)
 40
  F20f(20)
F20 with
• wood I-joists spaced 400 mm o.c.
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 300 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 1 h(19)
  65(19)
 40
  F20g
F20 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  55
 30
  F20h
F20 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  57
 30
  F20i
F20 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  62
 38
               © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Fire and Sound Resistance Tables
Table 9.10.3.1.-B (Continued)
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-373
 Type of Assembly
  Assem- bly Num- ber
Description(2)(3)(4)
 Fire-
Resistance Rating(5)(6)(7)(8)
  Typical Sound Transmission
Class(5)(6)(9)(10) (STC)
 Typical Impact Insulation Class(5)(9)(11)
(IIC)
              F20j
F20 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  64
 38
  F20k
F20 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  54
 30
  F20l
F20 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  56
 30
  F20m
F20 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  61
 38
  F20n
F20 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  63
 38
  F21(13)
• 38 mm concrete topping (at least 70 kg/m 2)
• subfloor of 15.5 mm plywood, OSB or waferboard, or
17 mm tongue and groove lumber
• on wood joists or wood I-joists spaced not more than
600 mm o.c.
• with or without absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm or 600 mm o.c. • 2 layers of gypsum board on ceiling side
      !
  F21a(16)
F21 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  60
 33
  F21b(16)
F21 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  62
 33
  F21c(16)
F21 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h [1.5 h](18)
  67 [68](18)
 41 [42](18)
  F21d(16)
F21 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h [1.5 h](18)
  69 [70](18)
 41 [42](18)
  F21e(16)
F21 with
• wood joists spaced 400 mm o.c.
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 [1.5 h](21)
  68(21)
 42
  F21f(20)
F21 with
• wood I-joists spaced 400 mm o.c.
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 300 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 [1.5 h](21)
  68(21)
 42
               © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Fire and Sound Resistance Tables
Wood Floor Trusses(23)
Division B 9-374
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
F22a F22b F22c F22d F22e F22f
F22 with
• no absorptive material in cavity • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
F22 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
F22 with
• no absorptive material in cavity • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
F22 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
F22 with
• no absorptive material in cavity • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
F22 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
- 29 27 - 31 30 - 28 26 - 30 29 - 27 25 - 31 28
Table 9.10.3.1.-B (Continued)
 Type of Assembly
  Assem- bly Num- ber
Description(2)(3)(4)
 Fire-
Resistance Rating(5)(6)(7)(8)
  Typical Sound Transmission
Class(5)(6)(9)(10) (STC)
 Typical Impact Insulation Class(5)(9)(11)
(IIC)
          F21g(16)
F21 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  59
 32
  F21h(16)
F21 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  61
 32
  F21i(16)
F21 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h [1.5 h](18)
  66 [67](18)
 40
  F21j(16)
F21 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  68
 40
  F21k
F21 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  59
 32
  F21l
F21 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  61
 32
  F21m
F21 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  66
 40
  F21n
F21 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  68
 40
  F22
• subfloor of 15.5 mm plywood, OSB or waferboard, or 17 mm tongue and groove lumber
• on wood trusses spaced not more than 600 mm o.c. • with or without absorptive material in cavity
• 1 layer gypsum board on ceiling side
    !
                    © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 F23 with
F23g • absorptive material in cavity -
• 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
F23 with
F23h • no absorptive material in cavity -
• 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
F23 with
F23i • absorptive material in cavity -
• 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
34             33
32             30
34             33
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Division B
9-375
Fire and Sound Resistance Tables
Table 9.10.3.1.-B (Continued)
 Type of Assembly
  Assem- bly Num- ber
Description(2)(3)(4)
 Fire-
Resistance Rating(5)(6)(7)(8)
  Typical Sound Transmission
Class(5)(6)(9)(10) (STC)
 Typical Impact Insulation Class(5)(9)(11)
(IIC)
  F23
• subfloor of 15.5 mm plywood, OSB or waferboard, or 17 mm tongue and groove lumber
• on wood trusses spaced not more than 600 mm o.c. • with or without absorptive material in cavity
• 2 layers of gypsum board on ceiling side
    !
  F23a
F23 with
• wood trusses spaced 400 mm o.c. • no absorptive material in cavity
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  34
 31
  F23b
F23 with
• wood trusses spaced 600 mm o.c. • no absorptive material in cavity
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  35
 31
  F23c
F23 with
• wood trusses spaced 400 mm o.c. • absorptive material in cavity
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 45 min [1 h](14)
  36
 34
  F23d
F23 with
• wood trusses spaced 600 mm o.c. • absorptive material in cavity
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 45 min
  37
 34
  F23e
F23 with
• wood trusses spaced 400 mm o.c. • no absorptive material in cavity
• 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  32
 30
  F23f
F23 with
• wood trusses spaced 600 mm o.c. • no absorptive material in cavity
• 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 45 min
  33
 30
                     F24
• subfloor of 15.5 mm plywood, OSB or waferboard, or 17 mm tongue and groove lumber
• on wood trusses spaced not more than 600 mm o.c.
• with or without absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 400 mm or 600 mm o.c. • 1 layer of gypsum board on ceiling side
    !
  F24a
F24 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  35
 27
  F24b
F24 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  37
 30
       © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Fire and Sound Resistance Tables
Table 9.10.3.1.-B (Continued)
Division B 9-376 National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
 Type of Assembly
  Assem- bly Num- ber
Description(2)(3)(4)
 Fire-
Resistance Rating(5)(6)(7)(8)
  Typical Sound Transmission
Class(5)(6)(9)(10) (STC)
 Typical Impact Insulation Class(5)(9)(11)
(IIC)
               F24c
F24 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  38
 30
  F24d
F24 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  40
 33
  F24e
F24 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  33
 26
  F24f
F24 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  36
 29
  F24g
F24 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  37
 29
  F24h
F24 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  39
 32
  F24i
F24 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  33
 25
  F24j
F24 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  35
 28
  F24k
F24 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  36
 28
  F24l
F24 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  38
 31
  F25
• subfloor of 15.5 mm plywood, OSB or waferboard, or 17 mm tongue and groove lumber
• on wood trusses spaced not more than 600 mm o.c.
• with or without absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 400 mm or 600 mm o.c. • 2 layers of gypsum board on ceiling side
    !"
  F25a
F25 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  40
 32
  F25b
F25 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  42
 34
                © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Fire and Sound Resistance Tables
Table 9.10.3.1.-B (Continued)
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-377
 Type of Assembly
  Assem- bly Num- ber
Description(2)(3)(4)
 Fire-
Resistance Rating(5)(6)(7)(8)
  Typical Sound Transmission
Class(5)(6)(9)(10) (STC)
 Typical Impact Insulation Class(5)(9)(11)
(IIC)
              F25c
F25 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  43
 35
  F25d
F25 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 45 min [1 h](17)
  45
 37
  F25e
F25 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  38
 30
  F25f
F25 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  40
 33
  F25g
F25 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  41
 33
  F25h
F25 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 45 min [1 h](17)
  43
 36
  F25i
F25 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  38
 30
  F25j
F25 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  40
 33
  F25k
F25 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  41
 33
  F25l
F25 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  43
 36
  F26
• subfloor of 15.5 mm plywood, OSB or waferboard, or 17 mm tongue and groove lumber
• on wood trusses spaced not more than 600 mm o.c. • with or without absorptive material in cavity
• 1 layer of gypsum board attached directly to trusses
on ceiling side
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm or 600 mm o.c.
attached to trusses through the gypsum board
• 1 layer of gypsum board attached to resilient metal
channels
     !
  F26a
F26 with
• no absorptive material in cavity • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board • resilient metal channels
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  35
 27
               © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Fire and Sound Resistance Tables
Table 9.10.3.1.-B (Continued)
Division B 9-378 National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
 Type of Assembly
  Assem- bly Num- ber
Description(2)(3)(4)
 Fire-
Resistance Rating(5)(6)(7)(8)
  Typical Sound Transmission
Class(5)(6)(9)(10) (STC)
 Typical Impact Insulation Class(5)(9)(11)
(IIC)
              F26b
F26 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board • resilient metal channels
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  37
 30
  F26c
F26 with
• no absorptive material in cavity • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board • resilient metal channels
• 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  35
 27
  F26d
F26 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board • resilient metal channels
• 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  37
 30
  F26e
F26 with
• no absorptive material in cavity • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board • resilient metal channels
• 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  32
 26
  F26f
F26 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• 12.7 mm regular gypsum board • resilient metal channels
• 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  35
 28
  F27
• subfloor of 15.5 mm plywood, OSB or waferboard, or 17 mm tongue and groove lumber
• on wood trusses spaced not more than 600 mm o.c.
• with or without absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm or 600 mm o.c. • 1 layer of gypsum board on ceiling side
    !#
  F27a
F27 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  41
 33
  F27b
F27 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  43
 36
  F27c
F27 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 30 min [45 min](24)
  48
 41
  F27d
F27 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  50
 44
  F27e
F27 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  40
 32
  F27f
F27 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  42
 35
               © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Fire and Sound Resistance Tables
Table 9.10.3.1.-B (Continued)
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-379
 Type of Assembly
  Assem- bly Num- ber
Description(2)(3)(4)
 Fire-
Resistance Rating(5)(6)(7)(8)
  Typical Sound Transmission
Class(5)(6)(9)(10) (STC)
 Typical Impact Insulation Class(5)(9)(11)
(IIC)
               F27g
F27 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  47
 40
  F27h
F27 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  49
 43
  F27i
F27 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  39
 31
  F27j
F27 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  41
 34
  F27k
F27 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  46
 39
  F27l
F27 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  48
 42
  F28
• subfloor of 15.5 mm plywood, OSB or waferboard, or 17 mm tongue and groove lumber
• on wood trusses spaced not more than 600 mm o.c.
• with or without absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm or 600 mm o.c. • 2 layers of gypsum board on ceiling side
    !
  F28a
F28 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  46
 38
  F28b
F28 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  48
 40
  F28c
F28 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  54
 46
  F28d
F28 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 45 min [1 h](17)
  55
 48
  F28e
F28 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  44
 36
  F28f
F28 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  46
 39
                © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Fire and Sound Resistance Tables
Table 9.10.3.1.-B (Continued)
Division B 9-380 National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
 Type of Assembly
  Assem- bly Num- ber
Description(2)(3)(4)
 Fire-
Resistance Rating(5)(6)(7)(8)
  Typical Sound Transmission
Class(5)(6)(9)(10) (STC)
 Typical Impact Insulation Class(5)(9)(11)
(IIC)
               F28g
F28 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  51
 44
  F28h
F28 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 45 min [1 h](17)
  53
 47
  F28i
F28 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  44
 36
  F28j
F28 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  46
 39
  F28k
F28 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  51
 44
  F28l
F28 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  53
 47
  F29
• one subfloor layer 11 mm sanded plywood, or OSB or waferboard
• one subfloor layer of 15.5 mm plywood, OSB or waferboard, or 17 mm tongue and groove lumber • on wood trusses spaced not more than 600 mm o.c.
• with or without absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm or 600 mm o.c. • 1 layer of gypsum board on ceiling side
     !$
  F29a
F29 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  44
 35
  F29b
F29 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  46
 37
  F29c
F29 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 30 min [45 min](24)
  51
 43
  F29d
F29 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  53
 45
  F29e
F29 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  43
 33
  F29f
F29 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  45
 36
                © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Fire and Sound Resistance Tables
Table 9.10.3.1.-B (Continued)
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-381
 Type of Assembly
  Assem- bly Num- ber
Description(2)(3)(4)
 Fire-
Resistance Rating(5)(6)(7)(8)
  Typical Sound Transmission
Class(5)(6)(9)(10) (STC)
 Typical Impact Insulation Class(5)(9)(11)
(IIC)
               F29g
F29 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  50
 41
  F29h
F29 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  52
 44
  F29i
F29 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  42
 34
  F29j
F29 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  44
 36
  F29k
F29 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  49
 41
  F29l
F29 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  51
 44
  F30
• one subfloor layer 11 mm sanded plywood, or OSB or waferboard
• one subfloor layer of 15.5 mm plywood, OSB or waferboard, or 17 mm tongue and groove lumber • on wood trusses spaced not more than 600 mm o.c.
• with or without absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm or 600 mm o.c. • 2 layers of gypsum board on ceiling side
      !
  F30a
F30 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  49
 39
  F30b
F30 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  51
 42
  F30c
F30 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h [1.5 h](25)
  56 [58](25)
 47 [50](25)
  F30d
F30 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 45 min [1 h](17)
  58
 50
  F30e
F30 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  47
 38
  F30f
F30 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  49
 40
                © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Fire and Sound Resistance Tables
Division B 9-382
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
F31a F31b F31c F31d F31e F31f
F31 with
• no absorptive material in cavity • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
F31 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
F31 with
• no absorptive material in cavity • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
F31 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
F31 with
• no absorptive material in cavity • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
F31 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
- 41 17 - 43 20 - 40 17 - 42 20 - 39 16 - 41 19
Table 9.10.3.1.-B (Continued)
 Type of Assembly
  Assem- bly Num- ber
Description(2)(3)(4)
 Fire-
Resistance Rating(5)(6)(7)(8)
  Typical Sound Transmission
Class(5)(6)(9)(10) (STC)
 Typical Impact Insulation Class(5)(9)(11)
(IIC)
  F30g
F30 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  54
 46
  F30h
F30 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 45 min [1 h](17)
  56
 48
  F30i
F30 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  47
 37
  F30j
F30 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  49
 40
  F30k
F30 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  54
 45
  F30l
F30 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  56
 48
  F31
• 25 mm gypsum-concrete topping (at least 44 kg/m2) • subfloor of 15.5 mm plywood, OSB or waferboard, or
17 mm tongue and groove lumber
• on wood trusses spaced not more than 600 mm o.c. • with or without absorptive material in cavity
• 1 layer of gypsum board on ceiling side
    !
                         F32
• 25 mm gypsum-concrete topping (at least 44 kg/m2) • subfloor of 15.5 mm plywood, OSB or waferboard, or
17 mm tongue and groove lumber
• on wood trusses spaced not more than 600 mm o.c. • with or without absorptive material in cavity
• 2 layers of gypsum board on ceiling side
     !
   © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 F32 with
F32g • absorptive material in cavity -
• 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
F32 with
F32h • no absorptive material in cavity -
• 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
F32 with
F32i • absorptive material in cavity -
• 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
46             19
44             19
46             22
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Division B
9-383
Fire and Sound Resistance Tables
Table 9.10.3.1.-B (Continued)
 Type of Assembly
  Assem- bly Num- ber
Description(2)(3)(4)
 Fire-
Resistance Rating(5)(6)(7)(8)
  Typical Sound Transmission
Class(5)(6)(9)(10) (STC)
 Typical Impact Insulation Class(5)(9)(11)
(IIC)
  F32a
F32 with
• wood trusses spaced 400 mm o.c. • no absorptive material in cavity
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  46
 20
  F32b
F32 with
• wood trusses spaced 600 mm o.c. • no absorptive material in cavity
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  47
 20
  F32c
F32 with
• wood trusses spaced 400 mm o.c. • absorptive material in cavity
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 45 min [1 h](14)
  48
 23
  F32d
F32 with
• wood trusses spaced 600 mm o.c. • absorptive material in cavity
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 45 min
  49
 23
  F32e
F32 with
• wood trusses spaced 400 mm o.c. • no absorptive material in cavity
• 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  44
 19
  F32f
F32 with
• wood trusses spaced 600 mm o.c. • no absorptive material in cavity
• 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 45 min
  45
 19
                   F33
• 25 mm gypsum-concrete topping (at least 44 kg/m2) • subfloor of 15.5 mm plywood, OSB or waferboard, or
17 mm tongue and groove lumber
• on wood trusses spaced not more than 600 mm o.c.
• with or without absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm or 600 mm o.c. • 1 layer of gypsum board on ceiling side
     !
  F33a
F33 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  53
 26
  F33b
F33 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  55
 26
  F33c
F33 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 30 min [45 min](24)
  60
 34
         © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Fire and Sound Resistance Tables
Table 9.10.3.1.-B (Continued)
Division B 9-384 National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
 Type of Assembly
  Assem- bly Num- ber
Description(2)(3)(4)
 Fire-
Resistance Rating(5)(6)(7)(8)
  Typical Sound Transmission
Class(5)(6)(9)(10) (STC)
 Typical Impact Insulation Class(5)(9)(11)
(IIC)
               F33d
F33 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  62
 34
  F33e
F33 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  52
 26
  F33f
F33 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  54
 26
  F33g
F33 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  59
 34
  F33h
F33 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  61
 34
  F33i
F33 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  51
 25
  F33j
F33 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  53
 25
  F33k
F33 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  58
 33
  F33l
F33 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  60
 33
  F34
• 25 mm gypsum-concrete topping (at least 44 kg/m2) • subfloor of 15.5 mm plywood, OSB or waferboard, or
17 mm tongue and groove lumber
• on wood trusses spaced not more than 600 mm o.c.
• with or without absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm or 600 mm o.c. • 2 layers of gypsum board on ceiling side
      !
  F34a
F34 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  57
 29
  F34b
F34 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  60
 29
  F34c
F34 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h [1.5 h](25)
  65 [67](25)
 37
                © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 F35 with
F35a • no absorptive material in cavity
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
F35 with
F35b • absorptive material in cavity
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
F35 with
F35c • no absorptive material in cavity
• 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
F35 with
F35d • absorptive material in cavity
• 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
- 45 26 - 47 29 - 43 26 -
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Division B
9-385
Fire and Sound Resistance Tables
Table 9.10.3.1.-B (Continued)
45 29
 Type of Assembly
  Assem- bly Num- ber
Description(2)(3)(4)
 Fire-
Resistance Rating(5)(6)(7)(8)
  Typical Sound Transmission
Class(5)(6)(9)(10) (STC)
 Typical Impact Insulation Class(5)(9)(11)
(IIC)
  F34d
F34 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 45 min [1 h](17)
  67
 37
  F34e
F34 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  56
 28
  F34f
F34 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  58
 28
  F34g
F34 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  63
 36
  F34h
F34 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 45 min [1 h](17)
  65
 36
  F34i
F34 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  56
 28
  F34j
F34 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  58
 28
  F34k
F34 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  63
 36
  F34l
F34 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  65
 36
  F35
• 38 mm concrete topping (at least 70 kg/m 2)
• subfloor of 15.5 mm plywood, OSB or waferboard, or
17 mm tongue and groove lumber
• on wood trusses spaced not more than 600 mm o.c. • with or without absorptive material in cavity
• 1 layer of gypsum board on ceiling side
    !"
                           © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Fire and Sound Resistance Tables
Division B 9-386
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
F35e F35f
Table 9.10.3.1.-B (Continued)
F35 with
• no absorptive material in cavity • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
F35 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
- 43 26 - 45 29
F36g F36h F36i
F36 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
F36 with
• no absorptive material in cavity • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
F36 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
- 50 30 - 47 27 - 49 30
 Type of Assembly
  Assem- bly Num- ber
Description(2)(3)(4)
 Fire-
Resistance Rating(5)(6)(7)(8)
  Typical Sound Transmission
Class(5)(6)(9)(10) (STC)
 Typical Impact Insulation Class(5)(9)(11)
(IIC)
      F36
• 38 mm concrete topping (at least 70 kg/m 2)
• subfloor of 15.5 mm plywood, OSB or waferboard, or
17 mm tongue and groove lumber
• on wood trusses spaced not more than 600 mm o.c. • with or without absorptive material in cavity
• 2 layers of gypsum board on ceiling side
     !
  F36a
F36 with
• wood trusses spaced 400 mm o.c. • no absorptive material in cavity
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  49
 28
  F36b
F36 with
• wood trusses spaced 600 mm o.c. • no absorptive material in cavity
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  50
 28
  F36c
F36 with
• wood trusses spaced 400 mm o.c. • absorptive material in cavity
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 45 min [1 h](14)
  51
 31
  F36d
F36 with
• wood trusses spaced 600 mm o.c. • absorptive material in cavity
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 45 min
  52
 31
  F36e
F36 with
• wood trusses spaced 400 mm o.c. • no absorptive material in cavity
• 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  48
 27
  F36f
F36 with
• wood trusses spaced 600 mm o.c. • no absorptive material in cavity
• 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 45 min
  49
 27
                    F37
• 38 mm concrete topping (at least 70 kg/m 2)
• subfloor of 15.5 mm plywood, OSB or waferboard, or
17 mm tongue and groove lumber
• on wood trusses spaced not more than 600 mm o.c.
• with or without absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm or 600 mm o.c. • 1 layer of gypsum board on ceiling side
     !#
   © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Fire and Sound Resistance Tables
Table 9.10.3.1.-B (Continued)
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec 
Fire and Sound Resistance Tables
Table 9.10.3.1.-B (Continued)
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-387Type of AssemblyAssem- bly Num- ber
Description(2)(3)(4)Fire-
Resistance Rating(5)(6)(7)(8)Typical Sound Transmission
Class(5)(6)(9)(10) (STC)Typical Impact Insulation Class(5)(9)(11)
(IIC)F37a
F37 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board45 min5635F37b
F37 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board-5935F37c
F37 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board30 min [45 min](24)6343F37d
F37 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board-6643F37e
F37 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board-5535F37f
F37 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board-5735F37g
F37 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board-6243F37h
F37 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board-6443F37i
F37 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board-5435F37j
F37 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board-5735F37k
F37 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board-6143F37l
F37 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board-6443F38
• 38 mm concrete topping (at least 70 kg/m 2)
• subfloor of 15.5 mm plywood, OSB or waferboard, or
17 mm tongue and groove lumber
• on wood trusses spaced not more than 600 mm o.c.
• with or without absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm or 600 mm o.c. • 2 layers of gypsum board on ceiling side    !© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022
 Fire and Sound Resistance Tables
Table 9.10.3.1.-B (Continued)
Division B 9-388 National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
 Type of Assembly
  Assem- bly Num- ber
Description(2)(3)(4)
 Fire-
Resistance Rating(5)(6)(7)(8)
  Typical Sound Transmission
Class(5)(6)(9)(10) (STC)
 Typical Impact Insulation Class(5)(9)(11)
(IIC)
              F38a
F38 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  61
 37
  F38b
F38 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  63
 37
  F38c
F38 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h [1.5](25)
  68 [71](25)
 45
  F38d
F38 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  70
 45
  F38e
F38 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  60
 36
  F38f
F38 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  62
 36
  F38g
F38 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  67
 44
  F38h
F38 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  69
 44
  F38i
F38 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  59
 36
  F38j
F38 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  61
 36
  F38k
F38 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  66
 44
  F38l
F38 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  68
 44
 Cold-Formed-Steel Floor Joists(26)
  F39
• subfloor of 15.5 mm plywood, OSB or waferboard, or 17 mm tongue and groove lumber
• on steel joists spaced not more than 600 mm o.c. • with or without absorptive material in cavity
• 1 layer of gypsum board on ceiling side
    !$
                © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Table 9.10.3.1.-B (Continued)
F39 with
F39a • no absorptive material in cavity -
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
F39 with
F39b • absorptive material in cavity -
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
F39 with
F39c • no absorptive material in cavity -
• 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
F39 with
F39d • absorptive material in cavity -
• 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
F39 with
F39e • no absorptive material in cavity -
• 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
F39 with
F39f • absorptive material in cavity -
• 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
29             27
31             30
27             26
29             29
27             25
29             28
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Division B
9-389
Fire and Sound Resistance Tables
 Type of Assembly
  Assem- bly Num- ber
Description(2)(3)(4)
 Fire-
Resistance Rating(5)(6)(7)(8)
  Typical Sound Transmission
Class(5)(6)(9)(10) (STC)
 Typical Impact Insulation Class(5)(9)(11)
(IIC)
          F40
• subfloor of 15.5 mm plywood, OSB or waferboard, or 17 mm tongue and groove lumber
• on steel joists spaced not more than 600 mm o.c. • with or without absorptive material in cavity
• 2 layers of gypsum board on ceiling side
     !
  F40a
F40 with
• steel joists spaced 400 mm o.c. • no absorptive material in cavity • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  34
 31
  F40b
F40 with
• steel joists spaced 600 mm o.c. • no absorptive material in cavity • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 45 min
  35
 31
  F40c
F40 with
• steel joists spaced 400 mm o.c. • absorptive material in cavity
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 45 min
  36
 34
  F40d
F40 with
• steel joists spaced 600 mm o.c. • absorptive material in cavity
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 45 min
  37
 34
  F40e
F40 with
• steel joists spaced 400 mm o.c. • no absorptive material in cavity • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  32
 30
  F40f
F40 with
• steel joists spaced 600 mm o.c. • no absorptive material in cavity • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 45 min
  33
 30
  F40g
F40 with
• steel joists spaced 400 mm o.c. • absorptive material in cavity
• 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 45 min
  34
 33
  F40h
F40 with
• steel joists spaced 600 mm o.c. • absorptive material in cavity
• 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 45 min
  35
 33
                   © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Fire and Sound Resistance Tables
Division B 9-390
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
F40i F40j
Table 9.10.3.1.-B (Continued)
F40 with
• no absorptive material in cavity • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
F40 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
- 31 30 - 33 33
 Type of Assembly
  Assem- bly Num- ber
Description(2)(3)(4)
 Fire-
Resistance Rating(5)(6)(7)(8)
  Typical Sound Transmission
Class(5)(6)(9)(10) (STC)
 Typical Impact Insulation Class(5)(9)(11)
(IIC)
      F41
• subfloor of 15.5 mm plywood, OSB or waferboard, or 17 mm tongue and groove lumber
• on steel joists spaced not more than 600 mm o.c.
• with or without absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 400 mm or 600 mm o.c. • 1 layer of gypsum board on ceiling side
    !
  F41a
F41 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  34
 27
  F41b
F41 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  37
 30
  F41c
F41 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 30 min [45 min](24)
  37
 30
  F41d
F41 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 30 min
  40
 33
  F41e
F41 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  33
 26
  F41f
F41 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  35
 29
  F41g
F41 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 30 min [45 min](24)
  36
 29
  F41h
F41 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 30 min
  38
 32
  F41i
F41 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 < 30 min
  32
 25
  F41j
F41 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 < 30 min
  35
 28
                       © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Fire and Sound Resistance Tables
Table 9.10.3.1.-B (Continued)
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-391
 Type of Assembly
  Assem- bly Num- ber
Description(2)(3)(4)
 Fire-
Resistance Rating(5)(6)(7)(8)
  Typical Sound Transmission
Class(5)(6)(9)(10) (STC)
 Typical Impact Insulation Class(5)(9)(11)
(IIC)
              F41k
F41 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 < 30 min
  35
 28
  F41l
F41 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 < 30 min
  38
 31
  F42
• subfloor of 15.5 mm plywood, OSB or waferboard, or 17 mm tongue and groove lumber
• on steel joists spaced not more than 600 mm o.c.
• with or without absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 400 mm or 600 mm o.c. • 2 layers of gypsum board on ceiling side
    !
  F42a
F42 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  39
 32
  F42b
F42 with
• steel joists spaced 400 mm o.c.
• no absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 45 min
  42
 34
  F42c
F42 with
• steel joists spaced 600 mm o.c.
• no absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 45 min
  43
 34
  F42d
F42 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  42
 35
  F42e
F42 with
• steel joists spaced 400 mm o.c.
• absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 45 min [1 h](27)
  45
 37
  F42f
F42 with
• steel joists spaced 600 mm o.c.
• absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 45 min [1 h](14)
  46
 37
  F42g
F42 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  38
 30
  F42h
F42 with
• steel joists spaced 400 mm o.c.
• no absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 45 min
  40
 33
  F42i
F42 with
• steel joists spaced 600 mm o.c.
• no absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 45 min
  41
 33
               © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Fire and Sound Resistance Tables
Table 9.10.3.1.-B (Continued)
Division B 9-392 National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
 Type of Assembly
  Assem- bly Num- ber
Description(2)(3)(4)
 Fire-
Resistance Rating(5)(6)(7)(8)
  Typical Sound Transmission
Class(5)(6)(9)(10) (STC)
 Typical Impact Insulation Class(5)(9)(11)
(IIC)
             F42j
F42 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  41
 33
  F42k
F42 with
• steel joists spaced 400 mm o.c.
• absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 45 min [1 h](27)
  43
 36
  F42l
F42 with
• steel joists spaced 600 mm o.c.
• absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 45 min [1 h](14)
  44
 36
  F42m
F42 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  37
 30
  F42n
F42 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  39
 33
  F42o
F42 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  40
 33
  F42p
F42 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• steel furring channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  42
 36
  F43
• subfloor of 15.5 mm plywood, OSB or waferboard, or 17 mm tongue and groove lumber
• on steel joists spaced not more than 600 mm o.c.
• with or without absorptive material in cavity
• 1 layer of gypsum board attached directly to joists on
ceiling side
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm or 600 mm o.c.
attached to joists through the gypsum board
• 1 layer of gypsum board attached to resilient metal
channels
     !
  F43a
F43 with
• no absorptive material in cavity • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board • resilient metal channels
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  35
 27
  F43b
F43 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board • resilient metal channels
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  37
 30
  F43c
F43 with
• no absorptive material in cavity • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board • resilient metal channels
• 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  35
 27
              © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Fire and Sound Resistance Tables
Table 9.10.3.1.-B (Continued)
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-393
  Type of Assembly
  Assem- bly Num- ber
Description(2)(3)(4)
 Fire-
Resistance Rating(5)(6)(7)(8)
  Typical Sound Transmission
Class(5)(6)(9)(10) (STC)
 Typical Impact Insulation Class(5)(9)(11)
(IIC)
              F43d
F43 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board • resilient metal channels
• 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  37
 30
  F43e
F43 with
• no absorptive material in cavity • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board • resilient metal channels
• 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  32
 26
  F43f
F43 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• 12.7 mm regular gypsum board • resilient metal channels
• 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  35
 28
  F44
• subfloor of 15.5 mm plywood, OSB or waferboard, or 17 mm tongue and groove lumber
• on steel joists spaced not more than 600 mm o.c.
• with or without absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm or 600 mm o.c. • 1 layer of gypsum board on ceiling side
    !
  F44a
F44 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  40
 33
  F44b
F44 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  43
 36
  F44c
F44 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 30 min [45 min](24)
  47
 41
  F44d
F44 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 30 min
  50
 44
  F44e
F44 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  39
 32
  F44f
F44 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  41
 35
  F44g
F44 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 30 min [45 min](24)
  46
 40
  F44h
F44 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 30 min
  48
 43
              © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Fire and Sound Resistance Tables
Table 9.10.3.1.-B (Continued)
Division B 9-394 National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
 Type of Assembly
  Assem- bly Num- ber
Description(2)(3)(4)
 Fire-
Resistance Rating(5)(6)(7)(8)
  Typical Sound Transmission
Class(5)(6)(9)(10) (STC)
 Typical Impact Insulation Class(5)(9)(11)
(IIC)
              F44i
F44 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 < 30 min
  38
 31
  F44j
F44 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 < 30 min
  41
 34
  F44k
F44 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 < 30 min
  45
 39
  F44l
F44 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 < 30 min
  48
 42
  F45
• subfloor of 15.5 mm plywood, OSB or waferboard, or 17 mm tongue and groove lumber
• on steel joists spaced not more than 600 mm o.c.
• with or without absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm or 600 mm o.c. • 2 layers of gypsum board on ceiling side
    !"
  F45a
F45 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  45
 38
  F45b
F45 with
• steel joists spaced 400 mm o.c.
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 45 min
  48
 40
  F45c
F45 with
• steel joists spaced 600 mm o.c.
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 45 min
  49
 40
  F45d
F45 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  52
 46
  F45e
F45 with
• steel joists spaced 400 mm o.c.
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 45 min [1 h](27)
  55
 48
  F45f
F45 with
• steel joists spaced 600 mm o.c.
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 45 min [1 h](14)
  56
 48
  F45g
F45 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  44
 36
               © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Fire and Sound Resistance Tables
Table 9.10.3.1.-B (Continued)
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-395
 Type of Assembly
  Assem- bly Num- ber
Description(2)(3)(4)
 Fire-
Resistance Rating(5)(6)(7)(8)
  Typical Sound Transmission
Class(5)(6)(9)(10) (STC)
 Typical Impact Insulation Class(5)(9)(11)
(IIC)
              F45h
F45 with
• steel joists spaced 400 mm o.c.
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 45 min
  46
 39
  F45i
F45 with
• steel joists spaced 600 mm o.c.
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 45 min
  47
 39
  F45j
F45 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  51
 44
  F45k
F45 with
• steel joists spaced 400 mm o.c.
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 45 min [1 h](27)
  53
 47
  F45l
F45 with
• steel joists spaced 600 mm o.c.
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 45 min [1 h](14)
  54
 47
  F45m
F45 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  43
 36
  F45n
F45 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  45
 39
  F45o
F45 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  50
 44
  F45p
F45 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  52
 47
  F46
• one subfloor layer of 11 mm sanded plywood, or OSB or waferboard
• one subfloor layer of 15.5 mm plywood, OSB or waferboard, or 17 mm tongue and groove lumber
• on steel joists spaced not more than 600 mm o.c.
• with or without absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm or 600 mm o.c. • 1 layer of gypsum board on ceiling side
     !
  F46a
F46 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  43
 34
  F46b
F46 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  46
 37
               © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Fire and Sound Resistance Tables
Table 9.10.3.1.-B (Continued)
Division B 9-396 National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
 Type of Assembly
  Assem- bly Num- ber
Description(2)(3)(4)
 Fire-
Resistance Rating(5)(6)(7)(8)
  Typical Sound Transmission
Class(5)(6)(9)(10) (STC)
 Typical Impact Insulation Class(5)(9)(11)
(IIC)
               F46c
F46 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  50
 42
  F46d
F46 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  53
 45
  F46e
F46 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  42
 33
  F46f
F46 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  44
 36
  F46g
F46 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  49
 41
  F46h
F46 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  51
 44
  F46i
F46 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  41
 33
  F46j
F46 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  44
 36
  F46k
F46 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  48
 41
  F46l
F46 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  51
 44
  F47
• one subfloor layer of 15.5 mm plywood, or OSB or waferboard
• one subfloor layer of 15.5 mm plywood, OSB or waferboard, or 17 mm tongue and groove lumber
• on steel joists spaced not more than 400 mm o.c.
• with or without absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm or 600 mm o.c. • 1 layer of gypsum board on ceiling side
     !
  F47a
F47 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 30 min
  45
 35
  F47b
F47 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 30 min
  47
 38
                © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Fire and Sound Resistance Tables
Table 9.10.3.1.-B (Continued)
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-397
 Type of Assembly
  Assem- bly Num- ber
Description(2)(3)(4)
 Fire-
Resistance Rating(5)(6)(7)(8)
  Typical Sound Transmission
Class(5)(6)(9)(10) (STC)
 Typical Impact Insulation Class(5)(9)(11)
(IIC)
               F47c
F47 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 30 min
[45 min](17) [1 h](27)
  51
 45
  F47d
F47 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 [30 min](17) [45 min](27)
  53
 47
  F47e
F47 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 30 min
  43
 44
  F47f
F47 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  45
 47
  F47g
F47 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 [30 min](17) [45 min](27)
  50
 43
  F47h
F47 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  52
 46
  F48
• one subfloor layer of 11 mm sanded plywood, or OSB or waferboard
• one subfloor layer of 15.5 mm plywood, OSB or waferboard, or 17 mm tongue and groove lumber
• on steel joists spaced not more than 600 mm o.c.
• with or without absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm or 600 mm o.c. • 2 layers of gypsum board on ceiling side
      !#
  F48a
F48 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  48
 39
  F48b
F48 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  50
 42
  F48c
F48 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  56
 47
  F48d
F48 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  57
 50
  F48e
F48 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  47
 38
  F48f
F48 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  49
 40
                © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Fire and Sound Resistance Tables
Division B 9-398
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
F49a F49b F49c F49d F49e F49f
F49 with
• no absorptive material in cavity • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
F49 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
F49 with
• no absorptive material in cavity • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
F49 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
F49 with
• no absorptive material in cavity • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
F49 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
- 40 13 - 42 16 - 39 12 - 41 15 - 38 12 - 40 15
Table 9.10.3.1.-B (Continued)
 Type of Assembly
  Assem- bly Num- ber
Description(2)(3)(4)
 Fire-
Resistance Rating(5)(6)(7)(8)
  Typical Sound Transmission
Class(5)(6)(9)(10) (STC)
 Typical Impact Insulation Class(5)(9)(11)
(IIC)
  F48g
F48 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  54
 46
  F48h
F48 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  56
 48
  F48i
F48 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  46
 37
  F48j
F48 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  48
 40
  F48k
F48 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  53
 45
  F48l
F48 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  55
 48
  F49
• 25 mm gypsum-concrete topping (at least 44 kg/m2) • subfloor of 15.5 mm plywood, OSB or waferboard, or
17 mm tongue and groove lumber
• on steel joists spaced not more than 600 mm o.c. • with or without absorptive material in cavity
• 1 layer of gypsum board on ceiling side
    !
                         F50
• 25 mm gypsum-concrete topping (at least 44 kg/m2) • subfloor of 15.5 mm plywood, OSB or waferboard, or
17 mm tongue and groove lumber
• on steel joists spaced not more than 600 mm o.c. • with or without absorptive material in cavity
• 2 layers of gypsum board on ceiling side
      !$
   © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Table 9.10.3.1.-B (Continued)
F50 with
F50a • no absorptive material in cavity -
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
F50 with
F50b • absorptive material in cavity -
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
F50 with
F50c • no absorptive material in cavity -
• 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
F50 with
F50d • absorptive material in cavity -
• 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
F50 with
F50e • no absorptive material in cavity -
• 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
F50 with
F50f • absorptive material in cavity -
• 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
45             16
47             19
44             15
46             18
43             14
45             17
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Division B
9-399
Fire and Sound Resistance Tables
 Type of Assembly
  Assem- bly Num- ber
Description(2)(3)(4)
 Fire-
Resistance Rating(5)(6)(7)(8)
  Typical Sound Transmission
Class(5)(6)(9)(10) (STC)
 Typical Impact Insulation Class(5)(9)(11)
(IIC)
         F51
• 25 mm gypsum-concrete topping (at least 44 kg/m2) • subfloor of 15.5 mm plywood, OSB or waferboard, or
17 mm tongue and groove lumber
• on steel joists spaced not more than 600 mm o.c.
• with or without absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm or 600 mm o.c. • 1 layer of gypsum board on ceiling side
     !"
  F51a
F51 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  52
 22
  F51b
F51 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  54
 22
  F51c
F51 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  59
 30
  F51d
F51 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  61
 30
  F51e
F51 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  51
 21
  F51f
F51 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  53
 21
  F51g
F51 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  58
 29
                  © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Fire and Sound Resistance Tables
Table 9.10.3.1.-B (Continued)
Division B 9-400 National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
 Type of Assembly
  Assem- bly Num- ber
Description(2)(3)(4)
 Fire-
Resistance Rating(5)(6)(7)(8)
  Typical Sound Transmission
Class(5)(6)(9)(10) (STC)
 Typical Impact Insulation Class(5)(9)(11)
(IIC)
               F51h
F51 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  60
 29
  F51i
F51 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  50
 21
  F51j
F51 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  52
 21
  F51k
F51 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  57
 29
  F51l
F51 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  59
 29
  F52
• 25 mm gypsum-concrete topping (at least 44 kg/m2) • subfloor of 15.5 mm plywood, OSB or waferboard, or
17 mm tongue and groove lumber
• on steel joists spaced not more than 600 mm o.c.
• with or without absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm or 600 mm o.c. • 2 layers of gypsum board on ceiling side
     !"
  F52a
F52 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  57
 25
  F52b
F52 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  59
 25
  F52c
F52 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  64
 33
  F52d
F52 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 45 min [1 h](24)
  66
 33
  F52e
F52 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  55
 24
  F52f
F52 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  58
 24
  F52g
F52 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  62
 32
                © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 F53 with
F53a • no absorptive material in cavity -
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
F53 with
F53b • absorptive material in cavity -
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
F53 with
F53c • no absorptive material in cavity -
• 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
F53 with
F53d • absorptive material in cavity -
• 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
F53 with
F53e • no absorptive material in cavity -
• 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
F53 with
F53f • absorptive material in cavity -
• 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
F54 with
F54a • no absorptive material in cavity -
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
F54 with
F54b • absorptive material in cavity -
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
44             22
46             25
42             21
44             24
42             21
44             24
48 24 50 27
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Division B
9-401
Fire and Sound Resistance Tables
Table 9.10.3.1.-B (Continued)
 Type of Assembly
  Assem- bly Num- ber
Description(2)(3)(4)
 Fire-
Resistance Rating(5)(6)(7)(8)
  Typical Sound Transmission
Class(5)(6)(9)(10) (STC)
 Typical Impact Insulation Class(5)(9)(11)
(IIC)
  F52h
F52 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 45 min [1 h](24)
  65
 32
  F52i
F52 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  55
 23
  F52j
F52 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  57
 23
  F52k
F52 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  62
 31
  F52l
F52 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  64
 31
  F53
• 38 mm concrete topping (at least 70 kg/m 2)
• subfloor of 15.5 mm plywood, OSB or waferboard, or
17 mm tongue and groove lumber
• on steel joists spaced not more than 600 mm o.c. • 1 layer of gypsum board on ceiling side
     !"
                       F54
• 38 mm concrete topping (at least 70 kg/m 2)
• subfloor of 15.5 mm plywood, OSB or waferboard, or
17 mm tongue and groove lumber
• on steel joists spaced not more than 600 mm o.c. • 2 layers of gypsum board on ceiling side
      !"
     © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Fire and Sound Resistance Tables
Division B 9-402
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
F54c F54d F54e F54f
Table 9.10.3.1.-B (Continued)
F54 with
• no absorptive material in cavity • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
F54 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
F54 with
• no absorptive material in cavity • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
F54 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
- 47 23 - 49 26 - 47 23 - 49 26
 Type of Assembly
  Assem- bly Num- ber
Description(2)(3)(4)
 Fire-
Resistance Rating(5)(6)(7)(8)
  Typical Sound Transmission
Class(5)(6)(9)(10) (STC)
 Typical Impact Insulation Class(5)(9)(11)
(IIC)
        F55
• 38 mm concrete topping (at least 70 kg/m 2)
• subfloor of 15.5 mm plywood, OSB or waferboard, or
17 mm tongue and groove lumber
• on steel joists spaced not more than 600 mm o.c.
• with or without absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm or 600 mm o.c. • 1 layer of gypsum board on ceiling side
    !"
  F55a
F55 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  56
 31
  F55b
F55 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  58
 31
  F55c
F55 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  63
 39
  F55d
F55 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  65
 39
  F55e
F55 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  54
 30
  F55f
F55 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  56
 30
  F55g
F55 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  61
 38
  F55h
F55 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  63
 38
  F55i
F55 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  54
 30
                     © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Fire and Sound Resistance Tables
Table 9.10.3.1.-B (Continued)
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-403
 Type of Assembly
  Assem- bly Num- ber
Description(2)(3)(4)
 Fire-
Resistance Rating(5)(6)(7)(8)
  Typical Sound Transmission
Class(5)(6)(9)(10) (STC)
 Typical Impact Insulation Class(5)(9)(11)
(IIC)
               F55j
F55 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  56
 30
  F55k
F55 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  61
 38
  F55l
F55 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  63
 38
  F56
• 38 mm concrete topping (at least 70 kg/m 2)
• subfloor of 15.5 mm plywood, OSB or waferboard, or
17 mm tongue and groove lumber
• on steel joists spaced not more than 600 mm o.c.
• with or without absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm or 600 mm o.c. • 2 layers of gypsum board on ceiling side
    !""
  F56a
F56 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  60
 33
  F56b
F56 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  62
 33
  F56c
F56 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  67
 41
  F56d
F56 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 45 min [1 h](24)
  69
 41
  F56e
F56 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  59
 32
  F56f
F56 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  61
 32
  F56g
F56 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  66
 40
  F56h
F56 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 45 min [1 h](24)
  68
 40
  F56i
F56 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  58
 32
                © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Fire and Sound Resistance Tables
Division B 9-404
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
F57a F57b F57c F57d F57e F57f
F58a F58b F58c F58d
F57 with
• no absorptive material in cavity • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
F57 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
F57 with
• no absorptive material in cavity • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
F57 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
F57 with
• no absorptive material in cavity • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
F57 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
F58 with
• no absorptive material in cavity • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
F58 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
F58 with
• no absorptive material in cavity • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
F58 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
- 45 26 - 47 29 - 44 25 - 46 28 - 43 25 - 45 28
- 50 27 - 52 30 - 48 27 - 50 30
Table 9.10.3.1.-B (Continued)
 Type of Assembly
  Assem- bly Num- ber
Description(2)(3)(4)
 Fire-
Resistance Rating(5)(6)(7)(8)
  Typical Sound Transmission
Class(5)(6)(9)(10) (STC)
 Typical Impact Insulation Class(5)(9)(11)
(IIC)
  F56j
F56 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  61
 32
  F56k
F56 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  65
 40
  F56l
F56 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  68
 40
  F57
• 50 mm concrete
• 0.46 mm metal pan with 19 mm rib
• on steel joists spaced not more than 600 mm o.c. • 1 layer of gypsum board on ceiling side
    !"
                   F58
• 50 mm concrete
• 0.38 mm metal pan with 16 mm rib
• on steel joists spaced not more than 600 mm o.c. • 2 layers of gypsum board on ceiling side
    !"#
       © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Table 9.10.3.1.-B (Continued)
F58 with
F58e • no absorptive material in cavity -
• 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
F58 with
F58f • absorptive material in cavity -
• 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
48 27 50 30
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Division B
9-405
Fire and Sound Resistance Tables
 Type of Assembly
  Assem- bly Num- ber
Description(2)(3)(4)
 Fire-
Resistance Rating(5)(6)(7)(8)
  Typical Sound Transmission
Class(5)(6)(9)(10) (STC)
 Typical Impact Insulation Class(5)(9)(11)
(IIC)
      F59
• 50 mm concrete
• 0.38 mm metal pan with 16 mm rib
• on steel joists spaced not more than 600 mm o.c.
• with or without absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm or 600 mm o.c. • 1 layer of gypsum board on ceiling side
    !"
  F59a
F59 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  57
 35
  F59b
F59 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  59
 35
  F59c
F59 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  64
 43
  F59d
F59 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  66
 43
  F59e
F59 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  56
 34
  F59f
F59 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  56
 34
  F59g
F59 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  63
 42
  F59h
F59 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  65
 42
  F59i
F59 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  55
 34
  F59j
F59 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  57
 34
                       © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Fire and Sound Resistance Tables
Table 9.10.3.1.-B (Continued)
Division B 9-406 National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
 Type of Assembly
  Assem- bly Num- ber
Description(2)(3)(4)
 Fire-
Resistance Rating(5)(6)(7)(8)
  Typical Sound Transmission
Class(5)(6)(9)(10) (STC)
 Typical Impact Insulation Class(5)(9)(11)
(IIC)
               F59k
F59 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  62
 42
  F59l
F59 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  64
 42
  F60
• 50 mm concrete
• 0.46 mm metal pan with a 19 mm rib
• on steel joists spaced not more than 600 mm o.c.
• with or without absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm or 600 mm o.c. • 2 layers of gypsum board on ceiling side
     !"$
  F60a
F60 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  62
 36
  F60b
F60 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  64
 36
  F60c
F60 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  69
 44
  F60d
F60 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 45 min [1 h](24)
  71
 44
  F60e
F60 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  60
 36
  F60f
F60 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  62
 36
  F60g
F60 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  67
 44
  F60h
F60 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 45 min [1 h](24)
  69
 44
  F60i
F60 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  60
 36
  F60j
F60 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  62
 36
                © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Fire and Sound Resistance Tables
Table 9.10.3.1.-B (Continued)
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-407
 Type of Assembly
  Assem- bly Num- ber
Description(2)(3)(4)
 Fire-
Resistance Rating(5)(6)(7)(8)
  Typical Sound Transmission
Class(5)(6)(9)(10) (STC)
 Typical Impact Insulation Class(5)(9)(11)
(IIC)
    F60k
F60 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  67
 44
  F60l
F60 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm regular gypsum board
 -
  69
 44
            F61
• 50 mm concrete
• 0.38 mm metal pan with 16 mm rib
• on steel joists spaced not more than 600 mm o.c.
• with or without absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm or 600 mm o.c. • 2 layers of gypsum board on ceiling side
     !"$
  F61a
F61 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  62
 32
  F61b
F61 with
• steel joists spaced 400 mm o.c.
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  64
 32
  F61c
F61 with
• steel joists spaced 600 mm o.c.
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  65
 29
  F61d
F61 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  68
 37
  F61e
F61 with
• steel joists spaced 400 mm o.c.
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  66
 34
  F61f
F61 with
• steel joists spaced 600 mm o.c.
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  71
 34
  F61g
F61 with
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  62
 32
  F61h
F61 with
• steel joists spaced 400 mm o.c.
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  64
 32
  F61i
F61 with
• steel joists spaced 600 mm o.c.
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  64
 28
               © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Fire and Sound Resistance Tables
Roofs
Wood Roof Trusses R1 • wood trusses spaced not more than 600 mm o.c. • 1 layer 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
Rating Provided by Membrane Only
M1 • supporting members spaced not more than 600 mm o.c. • 1 layer 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
M2 • supporting members spaced not more than 600 mm o.c. • 2 layers 15.9 mm Type X gypsum board
Notes to Table 9.10.3.1.-B:
45 min
30 min 1 h
- -
- - - -
Table 9.10.3.1.-B (Continued)
(1) See Note A-9.10.3.1.
(2) For assemblies with a ceiling consisting of a single layer of gypsum board on resilient metal channels to obtain the listed ratings, the resilient metal
channel arrangement at the gypsum board butt end joints should be as shown in Figure A-9.10.3.1.-A.
(3) For assemblies with a ceiling consisting of 2 layers of gypsum board on resilient metal channels to obtain the listed ratings, the fastener and
resilient metal channel arrangement at the gypsum board butt end joints should be as shown in Figure A-9.10.3.1.-B.
(4) The fire-resistance rating and sound transmission class values given are for a minimum thickness of subfloor or deck as shown. Minimum subfloor
thickness required is determined by structural member spacing (see Table 9.23.15.5.-A). Thicker subflooring or decking is also acceptable.
(5) Sound absorptive material includes
(i) fibre processed from rock, slag, or glass, and (ii) loose-fillorspray-appliedcellulosefibre.
To obtain the listed sound transmission class rating, the nominal insulation thickness is 150 mm for rock, slag, or glass fibres or loose-fill cellulose fibre, and 90 mm for spray-applied cellulose fibre, unless otherwise specified. Absorptive material will affect the sound transmission class by approximately adding or subtracting 1 per 50 mm change of thickness. However, no additional sound transmission class value is achieved by adding a greater thickness of insulation than the depth of the assembly.
(6) The fire-resistance rating and sound transmission class values are based on the spacing of ceiling supports as noted. (See also Table Note (10).) A narrower spacing will be detrimental to the sound transmission class rating, but not to the fire-resistance rating.
(7) To obtain the listed rating, the type and spacing of fasteners are as described in and installed in accordance with Subsection 9.29.5. or CSA A82.31-M:
(i) fastenerdistancetoboardedgesandbuttendsshouldbenotlessthan38mm,exceptforfastenersonthebuttendsofthebaselayerin ceilings with two layers (see Figure A-9.10.3.1.-B); and
(ii) fastenersarespacednotmorethan300mmo.c.
(8) See D-1.2.1.(2) in Appendix D for the significance of fire-resistance ratings.
(9) The sound transmission class values given in the Table are for the minimum depth of structural member noted in the description and applicable
table notes. To obtain sound transmission class values for structural members deeper than that minimum, add 1 to the sound transmission class
value in the Table for each 170 mm increase in structural member depth.
(10) The sound transmission class values given in the Table are for structural member spacing of 300 mm o.c., unless otherwise noted in the description
and applicable table notes. To obtain sound transmission class values for assemblies with structural members spaced more than 500 mm o.c., add
1 to the sound transmission class value in the Table.
(11) The impact insulation class values given are for floor assemblies tested with no finished flooring.
(12) Wood floor joists are:
Division B 9-408 National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
 Type of Assembly
  Assem- bly Num- ber
Description(2)(3)(4)
 Fire-
Resistance Rating(5)(6)(7)(8)
  Typical Sound Transmission
Class(5)(6)(9)(10) (STC)
 Typical Impact Insulation Class(5)(9)(11)
(IIC)
     F61j
F61 with
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 400 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  68
 36
  F61k
F61 with
• steel joists spaced 400 mm o.c.
• absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 1h
  64
 32
  F61l
F61 with
• steel joists spaced 600 mm o.c.
• no absorptive material in cavity
• resilient metal channels spaced 600 mm o.c. • 12.7 mm Type X gypsum board
 -
  70
 34
            © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Fire and Sound Resistance Tables
Table 9.10.3.1.-B (Continued)
(i) woodjoistswithaminimummembersizeof38mm(width)x235mm(depth),exceptasotherwisenoted(seeTableNote(15));or
(ii) woodI-joistswithaminimumflangesizeof38mmx38mm,aminimumOSBorplywoodwebthicknessof9.5mm,andaminimum
joist depth of 241 mm.
(13) Except where assemblies with wood I-joists are tested according to CAN/ULC-S101 the fire-resistance rating values apply only to I-joists that have
been fabricated with a phenolic-based structural wood adhesive complying with CSA O112.10. For I-joists with flanges made of laminated veneer lumber (LVL), the fire-resistance rating values apply only where the adhesive used in the LVL fabrication is a phenolic-based structural wood adhesive complying with CSA O112.9.
(14) The fire-resistance rating value within square brackets is achieved only where absorptive material includes spray-applied cellulose fibre with
(i) adhesivethatiscapableofprovidingaminimumcohesive/adhesivebondstrengthperunitareaof5timestheweightofthematerial
under the test plate when tested in accordance with ASTM E 736,
(ii) aminimumdensityof35kg/m3,and
(iii) aminimumthicknessof90mmontheundersideofthesubfloorordeck,of90mmonthesidesofthestructuralmembers,andfor cold-formed steel joists, of 13 mm on the underside of the bottom flange other than at resilient metal channel locations.
(15) The fire-resistance rating value within square brackets only applies to assemblies with solid wood joists and is achieved only where absorptive material includes:
(i) fibreprocessedfromrockorslagwithaminimumthicknessof90mmandaminimumsurfaceareamassof2.8kg/m2;or
(ii) spray-appliedcellulosefibrewithaminimumdensityof50kg/m3andaminimumdepthof90mmontheundersideofthesubfloorandof
90 mm on the sides of the floor joists.
(16) The fire-resistance rating, sound transmission class and impact insulation class values given are also applicable to assemblies with
38 mm (width) x 184 mm (depth) solid wood joists.
(17) The fire-resistance rating value within square brackets is achieved only where absorptive material includes:
(i) fibreprocessedfromrockorslagwithaminimumthicknessof90mmandaminimumsurfaceareamassof2.8kg/m2;or
(ii) spray-appliedcellulosefibrewithaminimumdensityof50kg/m3andaminimumdepthof90mmontheundersideofthesubfloorand
of 90 mm on the webs or the sides of the structural members.
(18) The fire-resistance rating, sound transmission class and impact insulation class values within the square brackets only apply to assemblies with solid
wood joists and are achieved only where absorptive material includes dry-blown cellulose fibre with a minimum density of 40 kg/m3 filling the entire cavity; the cellulose fibre is supported on zinc-coated (galvanized) steel poultry fence fabric conforming to ASTM A 390, which has 25-mm-wide hexagonal mesh openings and 0.81-mm-thick (20-gauge) wire and is attached to wood joists with metal staples having legs that are 50 mm long.
(19) The fire-resistance rating and sound transmission class values are achieved only where absorptive material includes:
(i) fibreprocessedfromrockorslagthatfillsthejoistcavityandhasaminimumsurfaceareamassof2.8kg/m2,andforstructuralmembersat
least 270 mm in depth, the fibre includes three layers each of which has a minimum thickness of 90 mm; or
(ii) dry-blowncellulosefibrewithaminimumdensityof40kg/m3fillingtheentirecavity;thecellulosefibreissupportedonzinc-coated
(galvanized) steel poultry fence fabric conforming to ASTM A 390, which has 25-mm-wide hexagonal mesh openings and 0.81-mm-thick
(20-gauge) wire and is attached to wood joists or wood I-joists with metal staples having legs that are 50 mm or 30 mm long, respectively.
(20) The fire-resistance rating value only applies to assemblies with wood I-joists with flanges with a minimum thickness of 38 mm and a minimum
width of 63 mm.
(21) The fire-resistance rating and sound transmission class values are achieved only where absorptive material includes:
(i) fibreprocessedfromrockorslagthatfillsthejoistcavityandhasaminimumsurfaceareamassof2.8kg/m2,andforstructuralmembersat least 270 mm in depth, the fibre includes three layers each of which has a minimum thickness of 90 mm; or
(ii) dry-blowncellulosefibrewithaminimumdensityof40kg/m3fillingtheentirecavity;thecellulosefibreissupportedonzinc-coated (galvanized) steel poultry fence fabric conforming to ASTM A 390, which has 25-mm-wide hexagonal mesh openings and 0.81-mm-thick (20-gauge) wire and is attached to wood joists with metal staples having legs that are 50 mm long.
(22) The fire-resistance rating values given only apply to assemblies with solid wood joists spaced not more than 400 mm o.c. No information is available for assemblies constructed with wood I-joists.
(23) Wood floor trusses are:
(i) metal-plate-connectedwoodtrusseswithwoodframingmembersnotlessthan38mmx64mm,metalconnectorplatesnotlessthan1mm
(nominal) thick with teeth not less than 8 mm long, and a minimum truss depth of 305 mm;
(ii) metal-webwoodtrusseswithwoodchordsnotlessthan38mmx64mm,V-shapedwebsmadefromgalvanizedsteelof1mm(nominal)
thickness with plate areas having teeth not less than 8 mm long, and a minimum truss depth of 286 mm; or
(iii) fingerjoinedwoodtrusseswithgluedfingerjoinedconnections,chordmembersnotlessthan38mmx64mm,webmembersnotlessthan
38 mm x 38 mm and a minimum truss depth of 330 mm, all of which is glued together with an R-14 phenol-resorcinol resin conforming to
CSA O112.10.
(24) The fire-resistance rating value within square brackets is achieved only where absorptive material includes fibre processed from rock or slag with a
minimum thickness of 90 mm and a minimum surface area mass of 2.8 kg/m2.
(25) The fire-resistance rating and sound transmission class values within square brackets are achieved only where absorptive material includes
dry-blown cellulose fibre with a minimum density of 40 kg/m3 filling the entire cavity; the cellulose fibre is supported on zinc-coated (galvanized) steel poultry fence fabric conforming to ASTM A 390, which has 25-mm-wide hexagonal mesh openings and 0.81-mm-thick (20-gauge) wire and is attached to wood trusses with metal staples having legs that are 38 mm long.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-409
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Fire and Sound Resistance Tables
Table 9.10.3.1.-B (Continued)
(26) Cold-formed steel floor joists (C-shaped joists) are members with a minimum size of 41 mm (width) x 203 mm (depth) x 1.22 mm (material thickness).
(27) The fire-resistance rating value within square brackets is achieved only where absorptive material includes spray-applied cellulose fibre with a minimum density of 50 kg/m3 and a minimum thickness of 90 mm on the underside of the subfloor, of 90 mm on the sides of the cold-formed steel floor joists, and of 13 mm on the underside of the bottom flange other than at resilient metal channel locations.
Division B 9-410 National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Span Tables
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-411
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Span Tables
Table 9.20.17.4.-A
Maximum Allowable Clear Spans for Lintels in Flat Loadbearing Insulating Concrete Form (ICF) Walls(1)(2)(3) (1-10M Bottom Bar) Forming Part of Sentences 9.3.2.8.(1) and 9.20.17.4.(3)
Minimum Lintel Thickness, mm
140
150
160
190
200
240
Notes to Table 9.20.17.4.-A:
Supporting Light-Frame Roof Only
Maximum Ground Snow Load, kN/m2
Minimum Lintel Depth, mm
1.50
200 1.41 300 1.78 400 2.08 500 2.33 600 2.55 200 1.41 300 1.78 400 2.08 500 2.33 600 2.54 200 1.41 300 1.78 400 2.07 500 2.32 600 2.53 200 1.41 300 1.78 400 2.06 500 2.30 600 2.51 200 1.41 300 1.77 400 2.06 500 2.30 600 2.50 200 1.41 300 1.76 400 2.04 500 2.27 600 2.47
3.33
1.18 1.50 1.75 1.97 2.16 1.18 1.50 1.75 1.97 2.15 1.18 1.50 1.75 1.96 2.15 1.19 1.50 1.74 1.95 2.13 1.19 1.49 1.74 1.95 2.13 1.19 1.49 1.73 1.93 2.11
1.50 3.33
1.03 0.93 1.30 1.18 1.53 1.38 1.72 1.56 1.89 1.71 1.02 0.92 1.29 1.17 1.51 1.37 1.70 1.54 1.87 1.70 1.01 0.91 1.28 1.16 1.50 1.36 1.68 1.53 1.85 1.68 0.98 0.89 1.24 1.13 1.45 1.32 1.63 1.49 1.78 1.63 0.97 0.89 1.23 1.12 1.43 1.31 1.61 1.48 1.77 1.62 0.94 0.86 1.18 1.09 1.38 1.27 1.55 1.43 1.70 1.56
(1) Deflection criterion is L/240, where “L” is the clear span of
(2) Linear interpolation is permitted between ground snow loads and between lintel depths.
(3) 10M stirrups are required at a maximum d/2 spacing for spans greater than 1 200 mm, where “d” is the distance from the top of the lintel to
the level of the bottom reinforcing bar in the lintel.
the lintel.
Division B 9-412 National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Maximum Clear Span, m
Supporting ICF Second Storey and Light-Frame Roof
           © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Table 9.20.17.4.-B
Maximum Allowable Clear Spans for Lintels in Flat Loadbearing Insulating Concrete Form (ICF) Walls(1)(2)(3) (1-15M Bottom Bar) Forming Part of Sentences 9.3.2.8.(1) and 9.20.17.4.(3)
Minimum Lintel Thickness, mm
140
150
160
190
200
240
Notes to Table 9.20.17.4.-B:
Supporting Light-Frame Roof Only
Maximum Ground Snow Load, kN/m2
Minimum Lintel Depth, mm
     200
     300
     400
     500
     600
     200
     300
     400
     500
     600
     200
     300
     400
     500
     600
     200
     300
     400
     500
     600
     200
     300
     400
     500
     600
     200
     300
     400
     500
     600
1.50 3.33
1.63 1.46 2.43 2.08 2.90 2.44 3.26 2.75 3.58 3.03 1.67 1.49 2.48 2.08 2.90 2.44 3.26 2.75 3.57 3.02 1.70 1.53 2.48 2.08 2.90 2.44 3.25 2.75 3.56 3.02 1.80 1.61 2.48 2.09 2.89 2.44 3.23 2.74 3.53 3.00 1.83 1.64 2.48 2.09 2.88 2.44 3.22 2.74 3.52 2.99 1.93 1.65 2.47 2.08 2.86 2.43 3.19 2.72 3.47 2.97
1.50 3.33
1.31 1.23 1.81 1.64 2.13 1.93 2.41 2.18 2.65 2.4 1.33 1.25 1.79 1.62 2.11 1.91 2.38 2.16 2.62 2.38 1.35 1.26 1.78 1.61 2.09 1.90 2.36 2.14 2.59 2.36 1.36 1.24 1.73 1.58 2.03 1.85 2.29 2.09 2.51 2.30 1.35 1.23 1.71 1.57 2.01 1.84 2.26 2.07 2.48 2.28 1.30 1.20 1.66 1.52 1.94 1.78 2.18 2.01 2.39 2.20
“L” is the clear span of the lintel. the level of the bottom reinforcing bar in the lintel.
(1) Deflection criterion is L/240, where
(2) Linear interpolation is permitted between ground snow loads and between lintel depths.
(3) 10M stirrups are required at a maximum d/2 spacing for spans greater than 1 200 mm, where “d” is the distance from the top of the lintel to
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-413
Maximum Clear Span, m
Supporting ICF Second Storey and Light-Frame Roof
Span Tables
           © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Span Tables
Table 9.20.17.4.-C
Maximum Allowable Clear Spans for Lintels in Flat Loadbearing Insulating Concrete Form (ICF) Walls(1)(2)(3) (2-15M Bottom Bar) Forming Part of Sentences 9.3.2.8.(1) and 9.20.17.4.(3)
Minimum Lintel Thickness, mm
140
150
160
190
200
240
Notes to Table 9.20.17.4.-C:
Supporting Light-Frame Roof Only
Maximum Ground Snow Load, kN/m2
Minimum Lintel Depth, mm
     200
     300
     400
     500
     600
     200
     300
     400
     500
     600
     200
     300
     400
     500
     600
     200
     300
     400
     500
     600
     200
     300
     400
     500
     600
     200
     300
     400
     500
     600
1.50 3.33
1.63 1.46 2.43 2.18 3.22 2.90 4.00 3.60 4.71 4.20 1.67 1.49 2.48 2.23 3.29 2.96 4.80 3.68 4.87 4.20 1.70 1.53 2.53 2.28 3.36 3.02 4.16 3.76 4.95 4.20 1.80 1.61 2.67 2.40 3.53 3.19 4.38 3.81 4.92 4.19 1.83 1.64 2.87 2.44 3.78 3.24 4.46 3.81 4.86 4.18 2.07 1.74 3.07 2.59 3.95 3.38 4.40 3.80 4.78 4.16
1.50 3.33
1.31 1.23 1.96 1.84 2.60 2.42 3.25 2.70 3.61 2.97 1.33 1.25 1.99 1.87 2.64 2.45 3.29 2.74 3.64 3.02 1.35 1.27 2.02 1.90 2.68 2.48 3.27 2.78 3.61 3.08 1.39 1.32 2.09 1.97 2.77 2.56 3.18 2.90 3.50 3.21 1.41 1.33 2.11 2.00 2.79 2.55 3.15 2.89 3.47 3.18 1.46 1.38 2.18 2.07 2.70 2.48 3.04 2.80 3.34 3.08
“L” is the clear span of the lintel. the level of the bottom reinforcing bar in the lintel.
(1) Deflection criterion is L/240, where
(2) Linear interpolation is permitted between ground snow loads and between lintel depths.
(3) 10M stirrups are required at a maximum d/2 spacing for spans greater than 1 200 mm, where “d” is the distance from the top of the lintel to
Division B 9-414 National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Maximum Clear Span, m
Supporting ICF Second Storey and Light-Frame Roof
           © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Commercial Designation
Grade
Select Structural
No.1andNo.2
No. 3
Construction Standard
Select Structural
No.1andNo.2
No. 3
Construction Standard
Joist Size, mm
38x89 38x140 38x184 38x235 38x286 38x89 38x140 38x184 38x235 38x286 38x89 38x140 38x184 38x235 38x286 38x89 38x89 38x89 38x140 38x184 38x235 38x286 38x89 38x140 38x184 38x235 38x286 38x89 38x140 38x184 38x235 38x286 38x89 38x89
With Strapping(2) Joist Spacing, mm 300 400 600
2.13 1.97 1.73 3.23 3.07 2.73 3.88 3.69 3.51 4.57 4.34 4.13 5.21 4.95 4.71 2.00 1.85 1.66 3.09 2.91 2.62 3.71 3.53 3.36 4.38 4.16 3.96 4.99 4.75 4.52 1.90 1.69 1.38 2.78 2.41 1.97 3.38 2.93 2.39 4.14 3.58 2.93 4.80 4.16 3.39 1.90 1.77 1.61 1.81 1.63 1.33 2.08 1.93 1.71 3.18 3.03 2.69 3.82 3.64 3.46 4.50 4.28 4.08 5.14 4.89 4.65 2.00 1.85 1.66 3.09 2.91 2.62 3.71 3.53 3.36 4.38 4.16 3.96 4.99 4.75 4.52 1.90 1.77 1.61 2.99 2.78 2.43 3.60 3.42 2.95 4.24 4.03 3.61 4.84 4.60 4.19 1.90 1.77 1.61 1.81 1.68 1.39
Maximum Span, m With Bridging Joist Spacing, mm
With Strapping(2) and Bridging Joist Spacing, mm
Douglas Fir – Larch (includes Douglas Fir and Western Larch)
300 400
2.19 1.99 3.44 3.12 4.18 3.92 4.86 4.57 5.49 5.16 2.09 1.90 3.29 2.99 4.00 3.76 4.66 4.38 5.26 4.94 1.95 1.69 2.78 2.41 3.38 2.93 4.14 3.58 4.80 4.16 2.03 1.84 1.88 1.63 2.16 1.96 3.39 3.08 4.12 3.87 4.80 4.51 5.42 5.09 2.09 1.90 3.29 2.99 4.00 3.76 4.66 4.38 5.26 4.94 2.03 1.84 3.19 2.90 3.88 3.61 4.51 4.24 5.10 4.79 2.03 1.84 1.96 1.71
600 300
1.73 2.19 2.73 3.44 3.59 4.37 4.29 5.05 4.85 5.66 1.66 2.09 2.62 3.29 3.44 4.19 4.11 4.84 4.65 5.43 1.38 1.95 1.97 2.78 2.39 3.38 2.93 4.14 3.39 4.80 1.61 2.03 1.33 1.88 1.71 2.16 2.69 3.39 3.54 4.31 4.23 4.98 4.78 5.59 1.66 2.09 2.62 3.29 3.44 4.19 4.11 4.84 4.65 5.43 1.61 2.03 2.43 3.19 2.95 4.06 3.61 4.68 4.19 5.26 1.61 2.03 1.39 1.96
400 600
1.99 1.73 3.12 2.73 4.07 3.59 4.70 4.39 5.28 4.92 1.90 1.66 2.99 2.62 3.90 3.44 4.51 4.20 5.06 4.72 1.69 1.38 2.41 1.97 2.93 2.39 3.58 2.93 4.16 3.39 1.84 1.61 1.63 1.33 1.96 1.71 3.08 2.69 4.02 3.54 4.64 4.33 5.21 4.86 1.90 1.66 2.99 2.62 3.90 3.44 4.51 4.20 5.06 4.72 1.84 1.61 2.90 2.43 3.61 2.95 4.37 3.61 4.90 4.19 1.84 1.61 1.71 1.39
Hem – Fir (includes Western Hemlock and Amabilis Fir)
Table 9.23.4.2.-A
Maximum Spans for Floor Joists – General Cases(1)
Forming Part of Sentences 9.3.2.8.(1), 9.23.4.2.(1) and (2), 9.23.4.4.(1) and 9.23.9.4.(1) to (3)
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Division B
9-415
Span Tables
               © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Span Tables
Commercial Designation
Grade
Select Structural
No.1andNo.2
No.3
Construction Standard
Select Structural
No.1andNo.2
No.3
Construction Standard
Joist Size, mm
38x89 38x140 38x184 38x235 38x286 38x89 38x140 38x184 38x235 38x286 38x89 38x140 38x184 38x235 38x286 38x89 38x89 38x89 38x140 38x184 38x235 38x286 38x89 38x140 38x184 38x235 38x286 38x89 38x140 38x184 38x235 38x286 38x89 38x89
With Strapping(2) Joist Spacing, mm 300 400 600
1.95 1.81 1.64 3.05 2.85 2.57 3.66 3.48 3.31 4.31 4.10 3.90 4.91 4.67 4.45 1.86 1.72 1.58 2.92 2.71 2.49 3.54 3.36 3.20 4.17 3.96 3.77 4.75 4.52 4.30 1.81 1.68 1.55 2.84 2.64 2.43 3.47 3.30 2.95 4.09 3.89 3.61 4.67 4.44 4.19 1.81 1.68 1.55 1.70 1.58 1.44 1.65 1.53 1.42 2.59 2.41 2.24 3.27 3.11 2.94 3.85 3.66 3.48 4.39 4.18 3.97 1.59 1.48 1.37 2.51 2.33 2.16 3.19 3.04 2.84 3.76 3.58 3.41 4.29 4.08 3.88 1.54 1.43 1.32 2.42 2.24 1.94 3.12 2.90 2.37 3.67 3.49 2.89 4.19 3.98 3.36 1.54 1.43 1.32 1.48 1.37 1.15
Maximum Span, m With Bridging Joist Spacing, mm
With Strapping(2) and Bridging Joist Spacing, mm
Spruce – Pine – Fir (includes Spruce (all species except Coast Sitka Spruce), Jack Pine, Lodgepole Pine, Balsam Fir and Alpine Fir)
300 400
2.06 1.87 3.24 2.95 3.94 3.70 4.59 4.31 5.18 4.87 1.99 1.81 3.14 2.85 3.81 3.58 4.44 4.17 5.01 4.71 1.96 1.78 3.08 2.80 3.74 3.52 4.36 4.09 4.92 4.62 1.96 1.78 1.88 1.71 1.84 1.68 2.90 2.63 3.52 3.31 4.10 3.85 4.63 4.35 1.80 1.64 2.83 2.57 3.44 3.23 4.01 3.77 4.53 4.25 1.74 1.57 2.74 2.38 3.35 2.90 3.91 3.54 4.42 4.11 1.74 1.57 1.63 1.41
600 300
1.64 2.06 2.57 3.24 3.38 4.12 4.05 4.76 4.57 5.34 1.58 1.99 2.49 3.14 3.27 3.99 3.92 4.60 4.42 5.17 1.55 1.96 2.43 3.08 2.95 3.92 3.61 4.52 4.19 5.08 1.55 1.96 1.44 1.88 1.46 1.84 2.30 2.90 3.03 3.69 3.62 4.26 4.09 4.78 1.43 1.80 2.25 2.83 2.96 3.60 3.54 4.16 4.00 4.67 1.36 1.76 1.94 2.75 2.37 3.35 2.89 4.06 3.36 4.55 1.40 1.76 1.15 1.63
400 600
1.87 1.64 2.95 2.57 3.84 3.38 4.44 4.14 4.98 4.64 1.81 1.58 2.85 2.49 3.72 3.27 4.29 4.00 4.82 4.49 1.78 1.55 2.80 2.43 3.61 2.95 4.22 3.61 4.73 4.19 1.78 1.55 1.71 1.44 1.68 1.46 2.63 2.30 3.44 3.03 3.97 3.70 4.45 4.15 1.64 1.43 2.57 2.25 3.36 2.96 3.88 3.62 4.35 4.06 1.60 1.36 2.38 1.94 2.90 2.37 3.54 2.89 4.11 3.36 1.60 1.40 1.41 1.15
Northern Species (includes any Canadian species covered by the NLGA Standard Grading Rules)
Notes to Table 9.23.4.2.-A:
(1) Spans apply only where the floors serve residential areas as described in Table 4.1.5.3., or exceed that specified for residential areas as described in Table 4.1.5.3.
(2) See Sentence 9.23.9.4.(5) for alternatives to strapping.
the uniformly distributed live load on the floors does not
Table 9.23.4.2.-A (Continued)
Division B 9-416 National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
               © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Commercial Designation
Grade
Select Structural
No.1andNo.2
No. 3
Construction Standard
Select Structural
No.1andNo.2
No. 3
Construction Standard
Joist Size, mm
38x89 38x140 38x184 38x235 38x286 38x89 38x140 38x184 38x235 38x286 38x89 38x140 38x184 38x235 38x286 38x89 38x89 38x89 38x140 38x184 38x235 38x286 38x89 38x140 38x184 38x235 38x286 38x89 38x140 38x184 38x235 38x286 38x89 38x89
Without Bridging Joist Spacing, mm 300 400 600
2.19 1.99 1.73 3.44 3.12 2.73 4.24 3.99 3.59 4.98 4.69 4.29 5.67 5.34 4.88 2.09 1.90 1.66 3.29 2.99 2.62 4.06 3.83 3.44 4.78 4.50 4.11 5.44 5.12 4.68 1.95 1.69 1.38 2.78 2.41 1.97 3.38 2.93 2.39 4.14 3.58 2.93 4.80 4.16 3.39 2.03 1.84 1.61 1.88 1.63 1.33 2.16 1.96 1.71 3.39 3.08 2.69 4.18 3.94 3.54 4.92 4.63 4.23 5.60 5.27 4.82 2.09 1.90 1.66 3.29 2.99 2.62 4.06 3.83 3.44 4.78 4.50 4.11 5.44 5.12 4.68 2.03 1.84 1.61 3.19 2.90 2.43 3.94 3.61 2.95 4.63 4.36 3.61 5.27 4.96 4.19 2.03 1.84 1.61 1.96 1.71 1.39
With Bridging Joist Spacing, mm
Douglas Fir – Larch (includes Douglas Fir and Western Larch)
300 400
2.19 1.99 3.44 3.12 4.52 4.11 5.47 5.20 6.19 5.89 2.09 1.90 3.29 2.99 4.33 3.93 5.24 4.98 5.93 5.64 1.95 1.69 2.78 2.41 3.38 2.93 4.14 3.58 4.80 4.16 2.03 1.84 1.88 1.63 2.16 1.96 3.39 3.08 4.46 4.05 5.39 5.13 6.10 5.81 2.09 1.90 3.29 2.99 4.33 3.93 5.24 4.98 5.93 5.64 2.03 1.84 3.19 2.90 4.17 3.61 5.08 4.42 5.74 5.13 2.03 1.84 1.96 1.71
600 300
1.73 2.19 2.73 3.44 3.59 4.52 4.58 5.77 5.54 6.83 1.66 2.09 2.62 3.29 3.44 4.33 4.31 5.37 5.00 6.24 1.38 1.72 1.97 2.45 2.39 2.98 2.93 3.65 3.39 4.23 1.61 2.03 1.33 1.66 1.71 2.16 2.69 3.39 3.54 4.46 4.52 5.69 5.47 6.74 1.66 2.09 2.62 3.29 3.44 4.33 4.39 5.53 5.25 6.54 1.61 2.03 2.43 3.02 2.95 3.68 3.61 4.50 4.19 5.22 1.61 2.03 1.39 1.74
400 600
1.99 1.73 3.12 2.73 4.11 3.59 5.24 4.58 6.37 5.58 1.90 1.66 2.99 2.55 3.81 3.11 4.65 3.80 5.40 4.41 1.49 1.21 2.12 1.73 2.58 2.11 3.16 2.58 3.66 2.99 1.84 1.61 1.44 1.17 1.96 1.71 3.08 2.69 4.05 3.54 5.17 4.52 6.28 5.50 1.90 1.66 2.99 2.62 3.93 3.26 4.88 3.99 5.66 4.63 1.83 1.50 2.62 2.14 3.18 2.60 3.89 3.18 4.52 3.69 1.84 1.61 1.50 1.23
Hem – Fir (includes Western Hemlock and Amabilis Fir)
Table 9.23.4.2.-B
Maximum Spans for Floor Joists – Special Cases(1)
Forming Part of Sentences 9.3.2.8.(1), 9.23.4.2.(1) and (2), 9.23.4.4.(2) and 9.23.9.4.(4) and (6)
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Division B
9-417
Maximum Span, m Joists with Ceilings Attached to Wood Furring
Joists with Concrete Topping With or Without Bridging(2) Joist Spacing, mm
Span Tables
                © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Span Tables
Commercial Designation
Grade
Select Structural
No.1andNo.2
No.3
Construction Standard
Select Structural
No.1andNo.2
No.3
Construction Standard
Joist Size, mm
38x89 38x140 38x184 38x235 38x286 38x89 38x140 38x184 38x235 38x286 38x89 38x140 38x184 38x235 38x286 38x89 38x89 38x89 38x140 38x184 38x235 38x286 38x89 38x140 38x184 38x235 38x286 38x89 38x140 38x184 38x235 38x286 38x89 38x89
Without Bridging Joist Spacing, mm 300 400 600
2.06 1.87 1.64 3.24 2.95 2.57 4.00 3.77 3.38 4.70 4.43 4.05 5.35 5.04 4.61 1.99 1.81 1.58 3.14 2.85 2.49 3.87 3.64 3.27 4.55 4.28 3.91 5.18 4.88 4.46 1.96 1.78 1.55 3.08 2.80 2.43 3.80 3.58 2.95 4.47 4.21 3.61 5.09 4.79 4.19 1.96 1.78 1.55 1.88 1.71 1.44 1.84 1.68 1.46 2.90 2.63 2.30 3.58 3.37 3.03 4.20 3.96 3.62 4.79 4.51 4.12 1.80 1.64 1.43 2.83 2.57 2.25 3.50 3.29 2.96 4.11 3.87 3.54 4.68 4.40 4.03 1.76 1.60 1.36 2.75 2.38 1.94 3.35 2.90 2.37 4.01 3.54 2.89 4.56 4.11 3.36 1.76 1.60 1.40 1.63 1.41 1.15
With Bridging Joist Spacing, mm
Spruce – Pine – Fir (includes Spruce (all species except Coast Sitka Spruce), Jack Pine, Lodgepole Pine, Balsam Fir and Alpine Fir)
300 400
2.06 1.87 3.24 2.95 4.26 3.87 5.16 4.91 5.84 5.55 1.99 1.81 3.14 2.85 4.12 3.75 4.99 4.75 5.65 5.37 1.96 1.78 3.08 2.80 4.05 3.61 4.90 4.42 5.55 5.13 1.96 1.78 1.88 1.71 1.84 1.68 2.90 2.63 3.81 3.46 4.61 4.39 5.22 4.96 1.80 1.64 2.83 2.57 3.72 3.38 4.51 4.29 5.10 4.85 1.76 1.60 2.75 2.38 3.35 2.90 4.09 3.54 4.75 4.11 1.76 1.60 1.63 1.41
600 300
1.64 2.06 2.57 3.24 3.38 4.26 4.32 5.45 5.23 6.45 1.58 1.99 2.49 3.14 3.27 4.12 4.18 5.27 5.06 6.23 1.55 1.96 2.43 3.02 2.95 3.68 3.61 4.50 4.19 5.22 1.55 1.96 1.44 1.80 1.46 1.84 2.30 2.90 3.03 3.81 3.86 4.87 4.68 5.76 1.43 1.80 2.25 2.83 2.96 3.72 3.76 4.69 4.36 5.44 1.36 1.70 1.94 2.42 2.37 2.95 2.89 3.61 3.36 4.18 1.40 1.76 1.15 1.44
400 600
1.87 1.64 2.95 2.57 3.87 3.38 4.95 4.32 6.01 5.26 1.81 1.58 2.85 2.49 3.75 3.27 4.79 4.13 5.81 4.79 1.78 1.50 2.62 2.14 3.18 2.60 3.89 3.18 4.52 3.69 1.78 1.55 1.56 1.27 1.68 1.46 2.63 2.30 3.46 3.03 4.42 3.86 5.37 4.54 1.64 1.43 2.57 2.23 3.32 2.71 4.06 3.31 4.71 3.84 1.47 1.20 2.10 1.71 2.55 2.08 3.12 2.55 3.62 2.96 1.60 1.37 1.25 1.02
Northern Species (includes any Canadian species covered by the NLGA Standard Grading Rules)
Notes to Table 9.23.4.2.-B:
(1) Spans apply only where the floors serve residential areas as described in Table 4.1.5.3., or exceed that specified for residential areas as described in Table 4.1.5.3.
(2) No bridging is assumed for spans for floor joists with concrete topping.
the uniformly distributed live load on the floors does not
Table 9.23.4.2.-B (Continued)
Maximum Span, m Joists with Ceilings Attached to Wood Furring
Joists with Concrete Topping With or Without Bridging(2) Joist Spacing, mm
Division B 9-418 National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
                © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Commercial Designation
Grade
Select Structural
No. 1 and No. 2
No. 3
Construction Standard
Select Structural
No. 1 and No. 2
No. 3
Construction Standard
Joist Size, mm
38x89 38x140 38x184 38x235 38x286
38x89 38x140 38x184 38x235 38x286
38x89 38x140 38x184 38x235 38x286
38x89 38x89 38x89
38x140 38x184 38x235 38x286
38x89 38x140 38x184 38x235 38x286
38x89 38x140 38x184 38x235 38x286
38 x 89 38 x 89
Maximum Span, m Joist Spacing, mm
400 600
3.10 2.71 4.88 4.26 6.41 5.60 8.18 7.15 9.96 8.70 2.97 2.59 4.67 4.08 6.14 5.36 7.84 6.85 9.54 8.34 2.88 2.42 4.23 3.46 5.15 4.20 6.30 5.14 7.31 5.97 2.88 2.51 2.78 2.34 3.06 2.67 4.81 4.20 6.32 5.52 8.07 7.05 9.82 8.58 2.97 2.59 4.67 4.08 6.14 5.36 7.84 6.85 9.54 8.34 2.88 2.51 4.53 3.95 5.95 5.19 7.60 6.34 9.01 7.36 2.88 2.50 2.78 2.43
Douglas Fir – Larch (includes Douglas Fir and Western Larch)
300
3.41 5.37 7.05 9.01
10.96 3.27 5.14 6.76 8.63 10.50 3.17 4.89 5.95 7.27 8.44 3.17 3.06 3.36 5.29 6.96 8.88 10.81 3.27 5.14 6.76 8.63 10.50 3.17 4.98 6.55 8.36 10.18 3.17 3.06
Hem – Fir (includes Western Hemlock and Amabilis Fir)
Table 9.23.4.2.-C
Maximum Spans for Ceiling Joists – Attic not Accessible by a Stairway Forming Part of Sentences 9.3.2.8.(1), 9.23.4.2.(1) and 9.23.14.10.(2)
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Division B
9-419
Span Tables
              © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Span Tables
Commercial Designation
Spruce – Pine – Fir (includes Spruce (all species except Coast Sitka Spruce), Jack Pine, Lodgepole Pine, Balsam Fir and Alpine Fir)
Grade
Select Structural
No. 1 and No. 2
No. 3
Construction Standard
Select Structural
No. 1 and No. 2
No. 3
Construction Standard
Table 9.23.4.2.-C (Continued)
Joist Size, mm
38x89 38x140 38x184 38x235 38x286
38x89 38x140 38x184 38x235 38x286
38x89 38x140 38x184 38x235 38x286
38x89 38x89 38x89
38x140 38x184 38x235 38x286
38x89 38x140 38x184 38x235 38x286
38x89 38x140 38x184 38x235 38x286
38 x 89 38 x 89
Maximum Span, m
Joist Spacing, mm
300 400 600
3.22 2.92 2.55 5.06 4.60 4.02 6.65 6.05 5.28 8.50 7.72 6.74
10.34 9.40 8.21 3.11 2.83 2.47 4.90 4.45 3.89 6.44 5.85 5.11 8.22 7.47 6.52
10.00 9.09 7.94 3.06 2.78 2.43 4.81 4.37 3.82 6.32 5.74 5.02 8.07 7.33 6.34 9.82 8.93 7.36 3.06 2.78 2.43 2.94 2.67 2.33 2.88 2.61 2.28 4.53 4.11 3.59 5.95 5.40 4.72 7.60 6.90 6.03 9.25 8.40 7.34 2.81 2.55 2.23 4.42 4.02 3.51 5.81 5.28 4.61 7.42 6.74 5.89 9.03 8.21 7.17 2.74 2.49 2.18 4.31 3.92 3.42 5.67 5.09 4.16 7.19 6.23 5.08 8.34 7.23 5.90 2.74 2.49 2.18 2.67 2.43 2.03
Northern Species (includes any Canadian species covered by the NLGA Standard Grading Rules)
Division B
9-420
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
              © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Commercial Designation
Grade
Select Structural
No.1andNo.2
No. 3
Construction Standard
Select Structural
No.1andNo.2
No. 3
Construction Standard
Joist Size, mm
38x89 38x140 38x184 38x235 38x286 38x89 38x140 38x184 38x235 38x286 38x89 38x140 38x184 38x235 38x286 38 x 89 38x89 38x89 38x140 38x184 38x235 38x286 38x89 38x140 38x184 38x235 38x286 38x89 38x140 38x184 38x235 38x286 38 x 89 38 x 89
1.0
Joist Spacing, mm
Maximum Span, m Specified Snow Load, kPa 1.5
Joist Spacing, mm
2.0
Joist Spacing, mm
Douglas Fir – Larch (includes Douglas Fir and Western Larch)
300 400
2.71 2.46 4.26 3.87 5.60 5.09 7.15 6.49 8.70 7.90 2.59 2.36 4.08 3.71 5.36 4.87 6.85 6.22 8.34 7.57 2.49 2.16 3.56 3.08 4.33 3.75 5.29 4.58 6.14 5.32 2.51 2.28 2.41 2.08 2.67 2.43 4.20 3.82 5.52 5.02 7.05 6.41 8.58 7.80 2.59 2.36 4.08 3.71 5.36 4.87 6.85 6.22 8.34 7.57 2.51 2.28 3.95 3.59 5.20 4.62 6.53 5.65 7.57 6.56 2.51 2.28 2.43 2.18
600
2.15 3.38 4.44 5.67 6.91 2.06 3.24 4.26 5.44 6.40 1.76 2.51 3.06 3.74 4.34 1.99 1.70 2.12 3.33 4.38 5.60 6.81 2.06 3.24 4.26 5.44 6.62 1.99 3.10 3.77 4.61 5.35 1.99 1.78
300 400
2.37 2.15 3.72 3.38 4.89 4.44 6.24 5.67 7.60 6.91 2.27 2.06 3.57 3.24 4.69 4.26 5.98 5.44 7.28 6.62 2.14 1.85 3.06 2.65 3.72 3.22 4.55 3.94 5.28 4.57 2.20 1.99 2.07 1.79 2.33 2.12 3.67 3.33 4.82 4.38 6.16 5.60 7.50 6.81 2.27 2.06 3.57 3.24 4.69 4.26 5.98 5.44 7.28 6.62 2.20 1.99 3.45 3.14 4.54 3.97 5.61 4.86 6.51 5.64 2.20 1.99 2.12 1.88
600 300
1.88 2.15 2.95 3.38 3.88 4.44 4.96 5.67 6.03 6.91 1.80 2.06 2.83 3.24 3.72 4.26 4.74 5.44 5.50 6.62 1.51 1.91 2.16 2.72 2.63 3.31 3.22 4.05 3.73 4.70 1.74 1.99 1.46 1.84 1.85 2.12 2.91 3.33 3.83 4.38 4.89 5.60 5.95 6.81 1.80 2.06 2.83 3.24 3.72 4.26 4.75 5.44 5.77 6.62 1.74 1.99 2.67 3.14 3.24 4.09 3.97 5.00 4.60 5.80 1.74 1.99 1.53 1.93
400 600
1.95 1.71 3.07 2.68 4.04 3.53 5.15 4.50 6.27 5.48 1.87 1.63 2.94 2.57 3.87 3.38 4.94 4.22 6.00 4.90 1.65 1.35 2.36 1.92 2.87 2.34 3.51 2.86 4.07 3.32 1.81 1.58 1.60 1.30 1.93 1.68 3.03 2.65 3.98 3.48 5.09 4.44 6.19 5.41 1.87 1.63 2.94 2.57 3.87 3.38 4.94 4.32 6.01 5.25 1.81 1.58 2.85 2.37 3.54 2.89 4.33 3.53 5.02 4.10 1.81 1.58 1.67 1.36
Hem – Fir (includes Western Hemlock and Amabilis Fir)
Table 9.23.4.2.-D
Maximum Spans for Roof Joists – Specified Roof Snow Loads 1.0 to 2.0 kPa Forming Part of Sentences 9.3.2.8.(1), 9.23.4.2.(1), 9.23.4.5.(1) and 9.23.14.10.(2)
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Division B
9-421
Span Tables
                © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Span Tables
Commercial Designation
Grade
Select Structural
No.1andNo.2
No. 3
Construction Standard
Select Structural
No.1andNo.2
No. 3
Construction Standard
Joist Size, mm
38 x 89 38x140 38x184 38x235 38x286 38 x 89 38x140 38x184 38x235 38x286 38 x 89 38x140 38x184 38x235 38x286 38 x 89 38 x 89 38 x 89 38x140 38x184 38x235 38x286 38 x 89 38x140 38x184 38x235 38x286 38 x 89 38x140 38x184 38x235 38x286 38 x 89 38 x 89
1.0
Joist Spacing, mm
Maximum Span, m Specified Snow Load, kPa 1.5
Joist Spacing, mm
2.0
Joist Spacing, mm 300 400 600
2.03 1.84 1.61 3.19 2.90 2.53 4.19 3.81 3.33 5.35 4.86 4.25 6.52 5.92 5.17 1.96 1.78 1.56 3.08 2.80 2.45 4.05 3.68 3.22 5.18 4.70 4.11 6.30 5.73 5.00 1.93 1.75 1.53 3.03 2.75 2.37 3.98 3.54 2.89 5.00 4.33 3.53 5.80 5.02 4.10 1.93 1.75 1.53 1.85 1.68 1.41 1.81 1.65 1.44 2.85 2.59 2.26 3.75 3.40 2.97 4.79 4.35 3.80 5.82 5.29 4.62 1.77 1.61 1.41 2.79 2.53 2.21 3.66 3.33 2.91 4.68 4.25 3.68 5.69 5.17 4.27 1.73 1.57 1.33 2.69 2.33 1.90 3.28 2.84 2.32 4.01 3.47 2.83 4.65 4.03 3.29 1.73 1.57 1.37 1.60 1.38 1.13
Spruce – Pine – Fir (includes Spruce (all species except Coast Sitka Spruce), Jack Pine, Lodgepole Pine, Balsam Fir and Alpine Fir)
300 400
2.55 2.32 4.02 3.65 5.28 4.80 6.74 6.13 8.21 7.46 2.47 2.24 3.89 3.53 5.11 4.64 6.52 5.93 7.94 7.21 2.43 2.20 3.82 3.47 5.02 4.56 6.41 5.65 7.57 6.56 2.43 2.20 2.33 2.12 2.28 2.07 3.59 3.26 4.72 4.29 6.03 5.48 7.34 6.67 2.23 2.03 3.51 3.19 4.61 4.19 5.89 5.35 7.17 6.52 2.18 1.98 3.42 3.05 4.28 3.71 5.23 4.53 6.07 5.26 2.18 1.98 2.09 1.81
600 300
2.03 2.23 3.19 3.51 4.19 4.61 5.35 5.89 6.52 7.17 1.96 2.16 3.08 3.40 4.05 4.46 5.18 5.70 6.30 6.94 1.93 2.12 3.03 3.33 3.77 4.38 4.61 5.60 5.35 6.51 1.93 2.12 1.85 2.04 1.81 1.99 2.85 3.14 3.75 4.12 4.79 5.27 5.82 6.41 1.77 1.95 2.79 3.07 3.66 4.03 4.68 5.15 5.58 6.26 1.73 1.90 2.49 2.99 3.03 3.68 3.70 4.50 4.29 5.22 1.73 1.90 1.48 1.80
400 600
2.03 1.77 3.19 2.79 4.19 3.66 5.35 4.68 6.52 5.69 1.96 1.71 3.08 2.69 4.05 3.54 5.18 4.52 6.30 5.50 1.93 1.68 3.03 2.65 3.97 3.24 4.86 3.97 5.64 4.60 1.93 1.68 1.85 1.59 1.81 1.58 2.85 2.49 3.75 3.27 4.79 4.18 5.82 5.09 1.77 1.55 2.79 2.43 3.66 3.20 4.68 4.09 5.69 4.80 1.73 1.50 2.62 2.14 3.19 2.60 3.90 3.18 4.52 3.69 1.73 1.51 1.56 1.27
Northern Species (includes any Canadian species covered by the NLGA Standard Grading Rules)
Division B
9-422
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Table 9.23.4.2.-D (Continued)
                © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Commercial Designation
Grade
Select Structural
No. 1 and No. 2
No. 3
Construction Standard
Select Structural
No. 1 and No. 2
No. 3
Construction Standard
Joist Size, mm
38 x 89 38x140 38x184 38x235 38x286 38 x 89 38x140 38x184 38x235 38x286 38x89 38x140 38x184 38x235 38x286 38 x 89 38 x 89 38 x 89 38x140 38x184 38x235 38x286 38 x 89 38x140 38x184 38x235 38x286 38x89 38x140 38x184 38x235 38x286 38 x 89 38 x 89
Maximum Span, m
Specified Snow Load, kPa
2.5 3.0
Joist Spacing, mm Joist Spacing, mm
300 400 600 300 400 600
1.99 1.81 1.58 1.88 1.71 1.49 3.14 2.85 2.49 2.95 2.68 2.34 4.12 3.75 3.27 3.88 3.53 3.08 5.27 4.79 4.18 4.96 4.50 3.93 6.41 5.82 5.09 6.03 5.48 4.79 1.91 1.74 1.52 1.80 1.63 1.43 3.01 2.73 2.39 2.83 2.57 2.25 3.95 3.59 3.14 3.72 3.38 2.90 5.05 4.59 3.84 4.75 4.32 3.55 6.14 5.46 4.46 5.78 5.05 4.12 1.74 1.50 1.23 1.60 1.39 1.13 2.48 2.15 1.75 2.29 1.98 1.62 3.01 2.61 2.13 2.79 2.41 1.97 3.69 3.19 2.61 3.41 2.95 2.41 4.28 3.70 3.03 3.95 3.42 2.79 1.85 1.68 1.47 1.74 1.58 1.38 1.68 1.45 1.19 1.55 1.34 1.10 1.97 1.79 1.56 1.85 1.68 1.47 3.10 2.81 2.46 2.91 2.65 2.31 4.07 3.70 3.23 3.83 3.48 3.04 5.20 4.72 4.12 4.89 4.44 3.88 6.32 5.75 5.02 5.95 5.41 4.72 1.91 1.74 1.52 1.80 1.63 1.43 3.01 2.73 2.39 2.83 2.57 2.25 3.95 3.59 3.14 3.72 3.38 2.95 5.05 4.59 4.01 4.75 4.32 3.72 6.14 5.58 4.68 5.78 5.25 4.32 1.85 1.68 1.47 1.74 1.58 1.38 2.91 2.65 2.16 2.74 2.45 2.00 3.72 3.22 2.63 3.44 2.98 2.43 4.55 3.94 3.22 4.20 3.64 2.97 5.28 4.57 3.73 4.88 4.22 3.45 1.85 1.68 1.47 1.74 1.58 1.38 1.76 1.52 1.24 1.62 1.40 1.15
Douglas Fir – Larch (includes Douglas Fir and Western Larch)
Hem – Fir (includes Western Hemlock and Amabilis Fir)
Table 9.23.4.2.-E
Maximum Spans for Roof Joists – Specified Roof Snow Loads 2.5 and 3.0 kPa Forming Part of Sentences 9.3.2.8.(1), 9.23.4.2.(1), 9.23.4.5.(1) and 9.23.14.10.(2)
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Division B 9-423
Span Tables
                © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Span Tables
Commercial Designation
Spruce – Pine – Fir (includes Spruce
(all species except Coast Sitka Spruce), Jack Pine, Lodgepole Pine, Balsam Fir and Alpine Fir)
Grade
Select Structural
No. 1 and No. 2
No. 3
Construction Standard
Select Structural
No. 1 and No. 2
No. 3
Construction Standard
Joist Size, mm
38 x 89 38x140 38x184 38x235 38x286 38 x 89 38x140 38x184 38x235 38x286 38 x 89 38x140 38x184 38x235 38x286 38 x 89 38 x 89 38 x 89 38x140 38x184 38x235 38x286 38 x 89 38x140 38x184 38x235 38x286 38 x 89 38x140 38x184 38x235 38x286 38 x 89 38 x 89
2.5
Joist Spacing, mm
300 400
1.88 1.71 2.96 2.69 3.89 3.54 4.97 4.52 6.05 5.50 1.82 1.65 2.86 2.60 3.76 3.42 4.81 4.37 5.85 5.31 1.79 1.62 2.81 2.56 3.70 3.22 4.55 3.94 5.28 4.57 1.79 1.62 1.72 1.56 1.68 1.53 2.65 2.40 3.48 3.16 4.44 4.04 5.41 4.91 1.64 1.49 2.59 2.35 3.40 3.09 4.34 3.94 5.28 4.76 1.60 1.46 2.45 2.12 2.98 2.58 3.65 3.16 4.23 3.66 1.60 1.46 1.46 1.26
600 300
1.49 1.77 2.35 2.79 3.09 3.66 3.94 4.68 4.80 5.69 1.44 1.71 2.27 2.69 2.99 3.54 3.82 4.52 4.64 5.50 1.42 1.68 2.16 2.65 2.63 3.44 3.22 4.20 3.73 4.88 1.42 1.68 1.29 1.62 1.34 1.58 2.10 2.49 2.76 3.27 3.53 4.18 4.29 5.09 1.31 1.55 2.05 2.43 2.70 3.20 3.35 4.09 3.89 4.97 1.21 1.51 1.73 2.26 2.11 2.76 2.58 3.37 2.99 3.91 1.27 1.51 1.03 1.34
3.0
Joist Spacing, mm
400 600
1.61 1.41 2.53 2.21 3.33 2.91 4.25 3.71 5.17 4.52 1.56 1.36 2.45 2.14 3.22 2.81 4.11 3.59 5.00 4.37 1.53 1.34 2.40 2.00 2.98 2.43 3.64 2.97 4.22 3.45 1.53 1.34 1.46 1.19 1.44 1.26 2.26 1.98 2.97 2.60 3.80 3.32 4.62 4.04 1.41 1.23 2.21 1.93 2.91 2.53 3.71 3.10 4.40 3.59 1.37 1.12 1.96 1.60 2.39 1.95 2.92 2.38 3.39 2.76 1.37 1.20 1.16 0.95
Northern Species (includes any Canadian species covered by the NLGA Standard Grading Rules)
Division B
9-424
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Table 9.23.4.2.-E (Continued)
Maximum Span, m Specified Snow Load, kPa
                © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Commercial Designation
Grade
Select Structural
No. 1 and No. 2
No.3
Construction Standard
Select Structural
No. 1 and No. 2
No. 3
Construction Standard
Rafter Size, mm
38x89 38x140 38x184 38x235 38x286 38x89 38x140 38x184 38x235 38x286 38x89 38x140 38x184 38x235 38x286 38 x 89 38x89 38x89 38x140 38x184 38x235 38x286 38x89 38x140 38x184 38x235 38x286 38x89 38x140 38x184 38x235 38x286 38 x 89 38 x 89
1.0
Rafter Spacing, mm
Maximum Span, m Specified Snow Load, kPa 1.5
Rafter Spacing, mm
2.0
Rafter Spacing, mm 300 400 600
2.71 2.46 2.15 4.26 3.87 3.38 5.60 5.09 4.44 7.15 6.49 5.62 8.70 7.90 6.52 2.59 2.36 2.06 4.08 3.60 2.94 5.06 4.38 3.58 6.19 5.36 4.38 7.18 6.22 5.08 1.98 1.71 1.40 2.82 2.44 1.99 3.43 2.97 2.43 4.20 3.64 2.97 4.87 4.22 3.44 2.51 2.21 1.80 1.91 1.65 1.35 2.67 2.43 2.12 4.20 3.82 3.33 5.52 5.02 4.38 7.05 6.41 5.54 8.58 7.80 6.42 2.59 2.36 2.06 4.08 3.71 3.08 5.31 4.60 3.75 6.49 5.62 4.59 7.53 6.52 5.33 2.44 2.11 1.72 3.48 3.01 2.46 4.23 3.67 2.99 5.18 4.48 3.66 6.01 5.20 4.25 2.51 2.28 1.89 2.00 1.73 1.41
Douglas Fir – Larch (includes Douglas Fir and Western Larch)
300 400
3.41 3.10 5.37 4.88 7.05 6.41 9.01 8.18
10.96 9.96 3.27 2.97 5.14 4.67 6.76 5.88 8.30 7.19 9.63 8.34 2.65 2.30 3.78 3.28 4.61 3.99 5.63 4.88 6.53 5.66 3.17 2.88 2.56 2.22 3.36 3.06 5.29 4.81 6.96 6.32 8.88 8.07
10.81 9.82 3.27 2.97 5.14 4.67 6.76 6.14 8.63 7.54
10.11 8.75 3.17 2.83 4.67 4.04 5.68 4.92 6.95 6.02 8.06 6.98 3.17 2.88 2.68 2.32
600
2.71 4.26 5.60 7.15 8.70 2.59 3.95 4.80 5.87 6.81 1.87 2.68 3.26 3.98 4.62 2.42 1.81 2.67 4.20 5.52 7.05 8.58 2.59 4.08 5.04 6.16 7.15 2.31 3.30 4.02 4.91 5.70 2.51 1.90
300 400
2.98 2.71 4.69 4.26 6.16 5.60 7.87 7.15 9.58 8.70 2.86 2.59 4.49 4.08 5.74 4.97 7.02 6.08 8.14 7.05 2.24 1.94 3.20 2.77 3.89 3.37 4.76 4.12 5.52 4.78 2.77 2.50 2.17 1.88 2.94 2.67 4.62 4.20 6.08 5.52 7.76 7.05 9.45 8.58 2.86 2.59 4.49 4.08 5.90 5.21 7.36 6.37 8.54 7.40 2.76 2.39 3.95 3.42 4.80 4.16 5.87 5.08 6.81 5.90 2.77 2.51 2.27 1.96
600
2.37 3.72 4.89 6.24 7.40 2.27 3.34 4.06 4.96 5.76 1.58 2.26 2.75 3.37 3.91 2.04 1.53 2.33 3.67 4.82 6.16 7.28 2.27 3.50 4.26 5.20 6.04 1.95 2.79 3.40 4.15 4.82 2.14 1.60
Hem – Fir (includes Western Hemlock and Amabilis Fir)
Table 9.23.4.2.-F
Maximum Spans for Roof Rafters – Specified Roof Snow Loads 1.0 to 2.0 kPa Forming Part of Sentences 9.3.2.8.(1), 9.23.4.2.(1), 9.23.4.5.(1) and 9.23.14.10.(2)
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Division B
9-425
Span Tables
                © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Span Tables
Commercial Designation
Grade
Select Structural
No. 1 and No.2
No.3
Construction Standard
Select Structural
No. 1 and No.2
No.3
Construction Standard
Rafter Size, mm
38 x 89 38x140 38x184 38x235 38x286 38 x 89 38x140 38x184 38x235 38x286 38x89 38x140 38x184 38x235 38x286 38 x 89 38 x 89 38 x 89 38x140 38x184 38x235 38x286 38 x 89 38x140 38x184 38x235 38x286 38x89 38x140 38x184 38x235 38x286 38 x 89 38 x 89
1.0
Rafter Spacing, mm
Maximum Span, m Specified Snow Load, kPa 1.5
Rafter Spacing, mm
2.0
Rafter Spacing, mm 300 400 600
2.55 2.32 2.03 4.02 3.65 3.19 5.28 4.80 4.19 6.74 6.13 5.35 8.21 7.46 6.52 2.47 2.24 1.96 3.89 3.53 3.08 5.11 4.64 3.89 6.52 5.82 4.75 7.80 6.76 5.52 2.43 2.11 1.72 3.48 3.01 2.46 4.23 3.67 2.99 5.18 4.48 3.66 6.01 5.20 4.25 2.43 2.20 1.93 2.07 1.79 1.47 2.28 2.07 1.81 3.59 3.26 2.85 4.72 4.29 3.68 6.03 5.48 4.51 7.34 6.40 5.23 2.23 2.03 1.77 3.51 3.14 2.56 4.41 3.82 3.12 5.40 4.67 3.82 6.26 5.42 4.43 1.95 1.69 1.38 2.79 2.42 1.97 3.40 2.94 2.40 4.15 3.60 2.94 4.82 4.17 3.41 2.18 1.93 1.57 1.66 1.44 1.17
Spruce – Pine – Fir (includes Spruce (all species except Coast Sitka Spruce), Jack Pine, Lodgepole Pine, Balsam Fir and Alpine Fir)
300 400
3.22 2.92 5.06 4.60 6.65 6.05 8.50 7.72
10.34 9.40 3.11 2.83 4.90 4.45 6.44 5.85 8.22 7.47
10.00 9.06 3.06 2.78 4.67 4.04 5.68 4.92 6.95 6.02 8.06 6.98 3.06 2.78 2.78 2.41 2.88 2.61 4.53 4.11 5.95 5.40 7.60 6.90 9.25 8.40 2.81 2.55 4.42 4.02 5.81 5.13 7.24 6.27 8.40 7.27 2.62 2.27 3.74 3.24 4.56 3.94 5.57 4.82 6.46 5.60 2.74 2.49 2.22 1.93
600
2.55 4.02 5.28 6.74 8.21 2.47 3.89 5.11 6.38 7.40 2.31 3.30 4.02 4.91 5.70 2.43 1.97 2.28 3.59 4.72 6.03 7.01 2.23 3.44 4.19 5.12 5.94 1.85 2.65 3.22 3.94 4.57 2.11 1.57
300 400
2.81 2.55 4.42 4.02 5.81 5.28 7.42 6.74 9.03 8.21 2.72 2.47 4.28 3.89 5.62 5.11 7.18 6.52 8.74 7.66 2.67 2.39 3.95 3.42 4.80 4.16 5.87 5.08 6.81 5.90 2.67 2.43 2.35 2.04 2.51 2.28 3.95 3.59 5.20 4.72 6.64 6.03 8.08 7.26 2.46 2.23 3.86 3.51 5.00 4.33 6.12 5.30 7.10 6.15 2.22 1.92 3.16 2.74 3.85 3.33 4.71 4.08 5.46 4.73 2.40 2.18 1.88 1.63
600
2.23 3.51 4.61 5.89 7.17 2.16 3.40 4.41 5.39 6.25 1.95 2.79 3.40 4.15 4.82 2.12 1.66 1.99 3.14 4.12 5.11 5.93 1.95 2.91 3.54 4.33 5.02 1.57 2.24 2.72 3.33 3.86 1.90 1.33
Northern Species (includes any Canadian species covered by the NLGA Standard Grading Rules)
Division B 9-426
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Table 9.23.4.2.-F (Continued)
                © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Commercial Designation
Grade
Select Structural
Maximum Span, m Specified Snow Load, kPa
Rafter Size, mm 2.5 3.0
No. 1 and Douglas Fir – Larch No.2
Rafter Spacing, mm
300 400 600
38 x 89 2.51 2.28 1.99 38x140 3.95 3.59 3.14 38x184 5.20 4.72 4.12 38x235 6.64 6.03 5.08 38x286 8.08 7.23 5.90 38 x 89 2.41 2.19 1.86 38x140 3.76 3.26 2.66 38x184 4.58 3.96 3.24 38x235 5.60 4.85 3.96 38x286 6.50 5.63 4.59 38x89 1.79 1.55 1.26 38x140 2.55 2.21 1.80 38x184 3.10 2.69 2.20 38x235 3.80 3.29 2.68 38x286 4.41 3.82 3.12 38 x 89 2.30 2.00 1.63 38 x 89 1.73 1.50 1.22 38 x 89 2.48 2.25 1.97 38x140 3.90 3.54 3.10 38x184 5.13 4.66 4.07 38x235 6.55 5.95 5.01 38x286 7.97 7.12 5.81 38 x 89 2.41 2.19 1.91 38x140 3.79 3.42 2.79 38x184 4.80 4.16 3.40 38x235 5.87 5.08 4.15 38x286 6.81 5.90 4.82 38x89 2.21 1.91 1.56 38x140 3.15 2.73 2.23 38x184 3.83 3.32 2.71 38x235 4.68 4.06 3.31 38x286 5.43 4.71 3.84 38 x 89 2.33 2.09 1.71 38 x 89 1.81 1.57 1.28
Rafter Spacing, mm 300 400
2.37 2.15 3.72 3.38 4.89 4.44 6.24 5.67 7.60 6.65 2.27 2.06 3.46 3.00 4.21 3.65 5.15 4.46 5.98 5.17 1.64 1.42 2.35 2.03 2.86 2.47 3.49 3.02 4.05 3.51 2.12 1.84 1.59 1.38 2.33 2.12 3.67 3.33 4.82 4.38 6.16 5.60 7.50 6.55 2.27 2.06 3.57 3.14 4.42 3.83 5.40 4.68 6.27 5.43 2.03 1.76 2.90 2.51 3.52 3.05 4.31 3.73 5.00 4.33 2.20 1.93 1.66 1.44
600
1.88 2.95 3.83 4.68 5.43 1.71 2.45 2.98 3.64 4.23 1.16 1.66 2.02 2.47 2.87 1.50 1.12 1.85 2.91 3.77 4.61 5.34 1.80 2.57 3.12 3.82 4.43 1.43 2.05 2.49 3.05 3.54 1.57 1.18
(includes Douglas Fir and Western Larch)
No. 1 and Hem – Fir (includes No.2
Western Hemlock and Amabilis Fir)
Table 9.23.4.2.-G
Maximum Spans for Roof Rafters – Specified Roof Snow Loads 2.5 and 3.0 kPa Forming Part of Sentences 9.3.2.8.(1), 9.23.4.2.(1) and 9.23.4.5.(1)
No.3
Construction Standard
Select Structural
No.3
Construction Standard
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Division B
9-427
Span Tables
                © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Span Tables
Commercial Designation
Spruce – Pine – Fir (includes Spruce
(all species except Coast Sitka Spruce), Jack Pine, Lodgepole Pine, Balsam Fir and Alpine Fir)
Grade
Select Structural
No. 1 and No.2
No.3
Construction Standard
Select Structural
No. 1 and No.2
No.3
Construction Standard
Rafter Size, mm
38 x 89 38x140 38x184 38x235 38x286 38 x 89 38x140 38x184 38x235 38x286 38x89 38x140 38x184 38x235 38x286 38 x 89 38 x 89 38 x 89 38x140 38x184 38x235 38x286 38 x 89 38x140 38x184 38x235 38x286 38x89 38x140 38x184 38x235 38x286 38 x 89 38 x 89
Maximum Span, m
Specified Snow Load, kPa
2.5 3.0
Rafter Spacing, mm Rafter Spacing, mm
300 400 600 300 400 600
2.37 2.15 1.88 2.23 2.03 1.77 3.73 3.39 2.96 3.51 3.19 2.79 4.90 4.45 3.89 4.61 4.19 3.66 6.26 5.69 4.97 5.89 5.35 4.68 7.62 6.92 5.90 7.17 6.52 5.43 2.29 2.08 1.82 2.16 1.96 1.71 3.61 3.28 2.86 3.40 3.08 2.66 4.74 4.31 3.52 4.46 3.96 3.23 6.06 5.27 4.30 5.59 4.84 3.96 7.06 6.11 4.99 6.49 5.62 4.59 2.21 1.91 1.56 2.03 1.76 1.43 3.15 2.73 2.23 2.90 2.51 2.05 3.83 3.32 2.71 3.52 3.05 2.49 4.68 4.06 3.31 4.31 3.73 3.05 5.43 4.71 3.84 5.00 4.33 3.54 2.25 2.05 1.77 2.12 1.93 1.63 1.87 1.62 1.33 1.72 1.49 1.22 2.12 1.93 1.68 1.99 1.81 1.58 3.33 3.03 2.65 3.14 2.85 2.49 4.38 3.98 3.33 4.12 3.75 3.07 5.60 4.99 4.08 5.27 4.59 3.75 6.69 5.79 4.73 6.15 5.33 4.35 2.07 1.88 1.62 1.95 1.77 1.49 3.26 2.84 2.32 3.02 2.61 2.13 3.99 3.46 2.82 3.67 3.18 2.60 4.88 4.23 3.45 4.49 3.89 3.17 5.66 4.90 4.00 5.21 4.51 3.68 1.77 1.53 1.25 1.63 1.41 1.15 2.52 2.19 1.78 2.32 2.01 1.64 3.07 2.66 2.17 2.82 2.45 2.00 3.76 3.25 2.66 3.45 2.99 2.44 4.36 3.77 3.08 4.01 3.47 2.83 2.01 1.74 1.42 1.85 1.60 1.31 1.50 1.30 1.06 1.38 1.19 0.98
Northern Species (includes any Canadian species covered by the NLGA Standard Grading Rules)
Division B
9-428
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Table 9.23.4.2.-G (Continued)
                © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Commercial Designation
Douglas
Fir – Larch (includes Douglas Fir and Western Larch)
Grade
Select Structural
No. 1 and No. 2
Select Structural
No. 1 and No. 2
Supported Length,
Maximum Span, m(5)(6) Size of Built-up Beam, mm
Hem – Fir (includes Western Hemlock and Amabilis Fir)
38x184
2.4 3.36 3.0 3.12 3.6 2.94 4.2 2.79 4.8 2.67 5.4 2.54 6.0 2.41 2.4 2.97 3.0 2.65 3.6 2.42 4.2 2.24 4.8 2.10 5.4 1.98 6.0 1.88 2.4 3.32 3.0 3.08 3.6 2.90 4.2 2.75 4.8 2.63 5.4 2.49 6.0 2.28 2.4 3.11 3.0 2.78 3.6 2.54 4.2 2.35 4.8 2.20 5.4 2.07 6.0 1.97
38x184 38x184
3.70 3.99 3.44 3.70 3.23 3.48 3.07 3.31 2.94 3.17 2.83 3.04 2.73 2.94 3.42 3.82 3.06 3.42 2.80 3.13 2.59 2.89 2.42 2.71 2.28 2.55 2.17 2.42 3.65 3.93 3.39 3.65 3.19 3.44 3.03 3.27 2.90 3.12 2.79 3.00 2.69 2.90 3.55 3.82 3.21 3.55 2.93 3.28 2.72 3.04 2.54 2.84 2.39 2.68 2.27 2.54
38x235 38x235 38x235 38x286 38x286
4.30 4.73 5.09 5.23 5.66 3.99 4.39 4.73 4.84 5.34 3.75 4.13 4.45 4.41 5.03 3.52 3.92 4.23 4.09 4.72 3.29 3.75 4.04 3.82 4.41 3.11 3.59 3.89 3.60 4.16 2.95 3.40 3.75 3.42 3.95 3.63 4.19 4.68 4.21 4.86 3.24 3.75 4.19 3.76 4.35 2.96 3.42 3.82 3.44 3.97 2.74 3.17 3.54 3.18 3.67 2.56 2.96 3.31 2.98 3.44 2.42 2.79 3.12 2.81 3.24 2.29 2.65 2.96 2.66 3.07 4.24 4.66 5.03 5.16 5.61 3.93 4.33 4.66 4.76 5.27 3.70 4.08 4.39 4.35 4.96 3.47 3.87 4.17 4.02 4.65 3.24 3.70 3.99 3.66 4.35 2.95 3.53 3.83 3.32 4.10 2.70 3.35 3.70 3.04 3.87 3.80 4.39 4.88 4.41 5.10 3.40 3.93 4.39 3.95 4.56 3.11 3.59 4.01 3.60 4.16 2.88 3.32 3.71 3.34 3.85 2.69 3.11 3.47 3.12 3.60 2.54 2.93 3.27 2.94 3.40 2.41 2.78 3.11 2.79 3.22
38x286
5.99 5.66 5.41 5.14 4.92 4.65 4.41 5.43 4.86 4.44 4.11 3.84 3.62 3.44 5.93 5.61 5.34 5.07 4.85 4.58 4.35 5.70 5.10 4.65 4.31 4.03 3.80 3.60
Table 9.23.4.2.-H
Maximum Spans for Built-up Floor Beams Supporting not more than One Floor(1)(2) Forming Part of Sentences 9.3.2.8.(1), 9.23.4.2.(3), 9.23.4.4.(3) and 9.23.8.1.(1)
m(3)(4) 3- 4- 5- 3- 4- 5- 3- 4- 5-
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Division B
9-429
Span Tables
        © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Span Tables
Commercial Supported
2.4 3.0
Table 9.23.4.2.-H (Continued)
Maximum Span, m(5)(6)
Size of Built-up Beam, mm
3- 4- 5- 3- 4- 5- 3- 4- 5-
Designation Grade Length, m(3)(4)
Spruce – 3.6
38x184 38x184
3.17 3.49 2.95 3.24 2.77 3.05 2.63 2.90 2.52 2.77 2.42 2.67 2.34 2.57 3.07 3.38 2.85 3.14 2.63 2.95 2.44 2.80 2.28 2.63 2.15 2.48 2.04 2.35 2.84 3.12 2.63 2.90 2.48 2.73 2.31 2.59 2.16 2.48 2.04 2.35 1.93 2.23 2.59 2.99 2.31 2.67 2.11 2.44 1.95 2.26 1.83 2.11 1.72 1.99 1.64 1.89
38x184 38x235
3.76 4.05 3.49 3.76 3.29 3.54 3.12 3.36 2.99 3.22 2.87 3.09 2.77 2.95 3.64 3.92 3.38 3.52 3.18 3.22 3.02 2.98 2.89 2.79 2.77 2.63 2.63 2.49 3.36 3.62 3.12 3.34 2.94 3.05 2.79 2.82 2.67 2.64 2.57 2.49 2.48 2.36 3.29 3.16 2.99 2.83 2.73 2.58 2.52 2.39 2.36 2.24 2.23 2.11 2.11 2.00
38x235 38x235
4.46 4.81 4.14 4.46 3.90 4.20 3.70 3.99 3.54 3.81 3.41 3.67 3.29 3.54 4.32 4.65 4.01 4.32 3.71 4.06 3.44 3.84 3.22 3.60 3.03 3.39 2.88 3.22 3.99 4.30 3.70 3.99 3.48 3.75 3.26 3.57 3.05 3.41 2.87 3.21 2.73 3.05 3.65 4.08 3.27 3.65 2.98 3.33 2.76 3.09 2.58 2.89 2.43 2.72 2.31 2.58
38x286 38x286 38x286
4.93 5.42 5.73 4.58 5.04 5.42 4.31 4.74 5.11 4.09 4.51 4.85 3.82 4.31 4.64 3.60 4.14 4.46 3.32 3.95 4.31 4.57 5.25 5.59 4.09 4.72 5.25 3.73 4.31 4.82 3.46 3.99 4.46 3.23 3.73 4.17 3.05 3.52 3.93 2.89 3.34 3.73 4.33 4.85 5.23 3.88 4.47 4.85 3.54 4.08 4.57 3.28 3.78 4.23 3.06 3.54 3.96 2.89 3.34 3.73 2.74 3.16 3.54 3.67 4.24 4.74 3.28 3.79 4.24 3.00 3.46 3.87 2.77 3.20 3.58 2.59 3.00 3.35 2.45 2.82 3.16 2.32 2.68 3.00
Pine – Fir Select 4.2 (includes Structural
Spruce (all 4.8
3.0
Fir and Alpine No. 2 4.2 Fir) 4.8
species
except
Coast Sitka
Spruce),
Jack Pine,
Lodgepole 3.6 Pine, Balsam No. 1 and
Select Northern Structural
5.4 6.0 2.4 3.0 3.6 4.2
Species 4.8
(includes any
Canadian
species
covered by
the NLGA
Standard
Grading 3.6 Rules) No. 1 and
4.2 4.8 5.4 6.0
(1) Beam spans apply only where the does not exceed that specified for
No. 2
Notes to Table 9.23.4.2.-H:
5.4 6.0 2.4
5.4 6.0 2.4 3.0
floors serve residential areas as described in Table 4.1.5.3., or the uniformly distributed live load on the floors
residential areas as described in Table 4.1.5.3.
(2) When the floors have a concrete topping of not more than 51 mm, the spans must be multiplied by 0.8.
(3) Supported length means half the sum of the joist spans on both sides of the beam.
(4) Straight interpolation may be used for other supported lengths.
(5) Spans are clear spans between supports. For total span, add two bearing lengths.
(6) 3-ply beams with supported lengths greater than 4.2 m require 114 mm bearing. All other beams require 76 mm bearing.
Division B 9-430 National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
        © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Commercial Designation
Douglas
Fir – Larch (includes Douglas Fir and Western Larch)
Grade
Select Structural
No. 1 and No. 2
Select Structural
No. 1 and No. 2
Supported Length,
Maximum Span, m(5)(6) Size of Built-up Beam, mm
Hem – Fir (includes Western Hemlock and Amabilis Fir)
38x184
2.4 2.80 3.0 2.55 3.6 2.33 4.2 2.16 4.8 2.00 5.4 1.82 6.0 1.67 2.4 2.22 3.0 1.99 3.6 1.81 4.2 1.68 4.8 1.57 5.4 1.48 6.0 1.40 2.4 2.76 3.0 2.51 3.6 2.15 4.2 1.90 4.8 1.70 5.4 1.56 6.0 1.44 2.4 2.33 3.0 2.08 3.6 1.90 4.2 1.76 4.8 1.65 5.4 1.55 6.0 1.44
38x184 38x184
3.08 3.32 2.86 3.08 2.69 2.90 2.49 2.75 2.33 2.60 2.20 2.45 2.08 2.33 2.56 2.87 2.29 2.56 2.09 2.34 1.94 2.17 1.81 2.03 1.71 1.91 1.62 1.81 3.04 3.27 2.82 3.04 2.65 2.86 2.40 2.72 2.15 2.56 1.95 2.35 1.79 2.15 2.69 3.01 2.41 2.69 2.20 2.45 2.03 2.27 1.90 2.13 1.79 2.00 1.70 1.90
38x235 38x235 38x235 38x286 38x286
3.49 3.93 4.24 4.05 4.67 3.12 3.60 3.93 3.62 4.18 2.85 3.29 3.68 3.30 3.82 2.64 3.04 3.40 2.99 3.53 2.38 2.85 3.18 2.69 3.30 2.17 2.68 3.00 2.45 3.08 2.00 2.51 2.85 2.26 2.83 2.72 3.14 3.51 3.15 3.64 2.43 2.80 3.14 2.82 3.25 2.22 2.56 2.86 2.57 2.97 2.05 2.37 2.65 2.38 2.75 1.92 2.22 2.48 2.23 2.57 1.81 2.09 2.34 2.10 2.43 1.72 1.98 2.22 1.99 2.30 3.43 3.88 4.18 3.99 4.60 2.97 3.55 3.88 3.34 4.12 2.56 3.24 3.62 2.88 3.65 2.26 2.85 3.35 2.55 3.21 2.03 2.56 3.08 2.30 2.88 1.86 2.32 2.79 2.11 2.62 1.72 2.14 2.56 1.96 2.42 2.85 3.29 3.68 3.30 3.82 2.55 2.94 3.29 2.96 3.41 2.33 2.68 3.00 2.70 3.12 2.15 2.49 2.78 2.50 2.88 2.01 2.33 2.60 2.30 2.70 1.86 2.19 2.45 2.11 2.54 1.72 2.08 2.33 1.96 2.41
38x286
5.16 4.67 4.27 3.95 3.69 3.48 3.30 4.07 3.64 3.32 3.07 2.88 2.71 2.57 5.09 4.60 4.20 3.87 3.46 3.14 2.88 4.27 3.82 3.48 3.22 3.02 2.84 2.70
Table 9.23.4.2.-I
Maximum Spans for Built-up Floor Beams Supporting not more than Two Floors(1)(2) Forming Part of Sentences 9.3.2.8.(1), 9.23.4.2.(3), 9.23.4.4.(3) and 9.23.8.1.(1)
m(3)(4) 3- 4- 5- 3- 4- 5- 3- 4- 5-
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Division B
9-431
Span Tables
        © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Span Tables
Commercial Designation
Spruce – Pine – Fir (includes Spruce (all species except
Coast Sitka Spruce), Jack Pine, Lodgepole Pine, Balsam Fir and Alpine Fir)
Northern Species (includes any Canadian species covered by the NLGA Standard Grading Rules)
Grade
Select Structural
No. 1 and No. 2
Select Structural
No. 1 and No. 2
Table 9.23.4.2.-I (Continued)
Maximum Span, m(5)(6)
Supported Size of Built-up Beam, mm Length,
m(3)(4) 3- 4- 5- 3- 4- 5- 3- 4- 5-
Notes to Table 9.23.4.2.-I:
38x184
2.4 2.64 3.0 2.45 3.6 2.31 4.2 2.07 4.8 1.85 5.4 1.69 6.0 1.56 2.4 2.41 3.0 2.16 3.6 1.97 4.2 1.82 4.8 1.71 5.4 1.61 6.0 1.53 2.4 2.29 3.0 2.04 3.6 1.87 4.2 1.73 4.8 1.62 5.4 1.52 6.0 1.44 2.4 1.94 3.0 1.73 3.6 1.58 4.2 1.46 4.8 1.37 5.4 1.29 6.0 1.22
38x184 38x184
2.91 3.13 2.70 2.91 2.54 2.73 2.41 2.60 2.31 2.48 2.13 2.39 1.95 2.31 2.79 3.03 2.49 2.79 2.27 2.54 2.11 2.35 1.97 2.20 1.86 2.08 1.76 1.97 2.60 2.80 2.36 2.60 2.16 2.41 2.00 2.23 1.87 2.09 1.76 1.97 1.67 1.87 2.24 2.50 2.00 2.24 1.83 2.04 1.69 1.89 1.58 1.77 1.49 1.67 1.41 1.58
38x235 38x235 38x235
3.37 3.71 4.00 3.12 3.45 3.71 2.79 3.24 3.49 2.46 3.04 3.32 2.21 2.79 3.17 2.02 2.53 3.00 1.86 2.32 2.79 2.95 3.41 3.81 2.64 3.05 3.41 2.41 2.78 3.11 2.23 2.57 2.88 2.09 2.41 2.69 1.97 2.27 2.54 1.86 2.15 2.41 2.80 3.23 3.57 2.50 2.89 3.23 2.28 2.64 2.95 2.11 2.44 2.73 1.98 2.28 2.55 1.86 2.15 2.41 1.72 2.04 2.28 2.37 2.73 3.06 2.12 2.44 2.73 1.93 2.23 2.50 1.79 2.07 2.31 1.67 1.93 2.16 1.58 1.82 2.04 1.50 1.73 1.93
38x286 38x286 38x286
4.05 4.52 4.87 3.62 4.18 4.52 3.14 3.82 4.25 2.77 3.50 3.95 2.50 3.14 3.69 2.28 2.85 3.42 2.11 2.62 3.14 3.42 3.95 4.42 3.06 3.53 3.95 2.79 3.23 3.61 2.59 2.99 3.34 2.42 2.79 3.12 2.28 2.63 2.95 2.11 2.50 2.79 3.24 3.75 4.19 2.90 3.35 3.75 2.65 3.06 3.42 2.45 2.83 3.17 2.29 2.65 2.96 2.11 2.50 2.79 1.96 2.37 2.65 2.75 3.17 3.55 2.46 2.84 3.17 2.24 2.59 2.90 2.08 2.40 2.68 1.94 2.24 2.51 1.83 2.11 2.36 1.74 2.01 2.24
(1) Beam spans apply only where the floors serve residential areas as described in Table 4.1.5.3., or the uniformly distributed live load on the floors does not exceed that specified for residential areas as described in Table 4.1.5.3.
(2) When the floors have a concrete topping of not more than 51 mm, the spans must be multiplied by 0.8.
(3) Supported length means half the sum of the joist spans on both sides of the beam.
(4) Straight interpolation may be used for other supported lengths.
(5) Spans are clear spans between supports. For total span, add two bearing lengths.
(6) 3-ply beams require 114 mm bearing. 4-ply and 5-ply beams with supported lengths greater than 3 m require 114 mm bearing. All other beams require 76 mm bearing.
Division B 9-432 National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
        © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Commercial Designation
Douglas
Fir – Larch (includes Douglas Fir and Western Larch)
No. 1 and No. 2
Select Structural
No. 1 and No. 2
Supported Length,
Maximum Span, m(5)(6) Size of Built-up Beam, mm
Hem – Fir (includes Western Hemlock and Amabilis Fir)
38x184 38x184 38x184
2.4 2.38 2.74 2.95 3.0 2.13 2.46 2.74 3.6 1.88 2.24 2.51 4.2 1.66 2.08 2.32 4.8 1.50 1.88 2.17 5.4 1.38 1.71 2.05 6.0 1.28 1.58 1.88 2.4 1.85 2.14 2.39 3.0 1.66 1.91 2.14 3.6 1.51 1.74 1.95 4.2 1.40 1.62 1.81 4.8 1.31 1.51 1.69 5.4 1.23 1.42 1.59 6.0 1.17 1.35 1.51 2.4 2.22 2.70 2.91 3.0 1.85 2.35 2.70 3.6 1.61 2.02 2.43 4.2 1.43 1.78 2.14 4.8 1.30 1.61 1.92 5.4 1.19 1.47 1.74 6.0 1.11 1.36 1.61 2.4 1.94 2.24 2.51 3.0 1.74 2.00 2.24 3.6 1.58 1.83 2.05 4.2 1.43 1.69 1.89 4.8 1.30 1.58 1.77 5.4 1.19 1.47 1.67 6.0 1.11 1.36 1.58
38x235 38x235 38x235 38x286 38x286
2.91 3.36 3.75 3.37 3.89 2.60 3.00 3.36 2.92 3.48 2.24 2.74 3.06 2.53 3.18 1.99 2.49 2.84 2.25 2.81 1.80 2.24 2.65 2.04 2.53 1.65 2.04 2.44 1.88 2.31 1.53 1.89 2.24 1.75 2.14 2.26 2.61 2.92 2.63 3.03 2.02 2.34 2.61 2.35 2.71 1.85 2.13 2.39 2.14 2.48 1.71 1.98 2.21 1.99 2.29 1.60 1.85 2.07 1.86 2.14 1.51 1.74 1.95 1.75 2.02 1.43 1.65 1.85 1.66 1.92 2.64 3.31 3.70 2.98 3.78 2.21 2.79 3.31 2.50 3.14 1.92 2.40 2.89 2.18 2.71 1.71 2.13 2.54 1.95 2.40 1.56 1.92 2.28 1.77 2.18 1.44 1.76 2.08 1.64 2.00 1.34 1.63 1.92 1.53 1.85 2.37 2.74 3.06 2.75 3.18 2.12 2.45 2.74 2.46 2.84 1.92 2.24 2.50 2.18 2.60 1.71 2.07 2.32 1.95 2.40 1.56 1.92 2.17 1.77 2.18 1.44 1.76 2.04 1.64 2.00 1.34 1.63 1.92 1.53 1.85
38x286
4.35 3.89 3.56 3.29 3.02 2.75 2.53 3.39 3.03 2.77 2.56 2.40 2.26 2.14 4.29 3.78 3.24 2.86 2.58 2.35 2.18 3.56 3.18 2.90 2.69 2.51 2.35 2.18
Grade
Select Structural
m(3)(4) 3- 4- 5- 3- 4- 5- 3- 4- 5-
Table 9.23.4.2.-J
Maximum Spans for Built-up Floor Beams Supporting not more than Three Floors(1)(2) Forming Part of Sentences 9.3.2.8.(1), 9.23.4.2.(3), 9.23.4.4.(3) and 9.23.8.1.(1)
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Division B
9-433
Span Tables
        © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Span Tables
Commercial Designation
Spruce – Pine – Fir (includes Spruce (all species except Coast Sitka Spruce), Jack Pine, Lodgepole Pine, Balsam Fir and Alpine Fir)
Northern Species (includes any Canadian species covered by the NLGA Standard Grading Rules)
Grade
Select Structural
No. 1 and No.2
Select Structural
No. 1 and No. 2
Supported Length,
Notes to Table 9.23.4.2.-J:
Table 9.23.4.2.-J (Continued)
Maximum Span, m(5)(6) Size of Built-up Beam, mm
m(3)(4) 3- 4- 5- 3- 4- 5- 3- 4- 5-
38x184 38x184 38x184
2.4 2.35 2.58 2.78 3.0 2.02 2.40 2.58 3.6 1.74 2.20 2.43 4.2 1.55 1.94 2.31 4.8 1.40 1.74 2.09 5.4 1.28 1.59 1.90 6.0 1.19 1.47 1.74 2.4 2.01 2.32 2.60 3.0 1.80 2.08 2.32 3.6 1.64 1.90 2.12 4.2 1.52 1.75 1.96 4.8 1.40 1.64 1.84 5.4 1.28 1.55 1.73 6.0 1.19 1.47 1.64 2.4 1.91 2.20 2.46 3.0 1.70 1.97 2.20 3.6 1.56 1.80 2.01 4.2 1.43 1.66 1.86 4.8 1.30 1.56 1.74 5.4 1.19 1.47 1.64 6.0 1.11 1.36 1.56 2.4 1.61 1.86 2.08 3.0 1.44 1.67 1.86 3.6 1.32 1.52 1.70 4.2 1.22 1.41 1.57 4.8 1.14 1.32 1.47 5.4 1.08 1.24 1.39 6.0 1.02 1.18 1.32
38x235 38x235
2.89 3.30 2.40 3.00 2.08 2.62 1.85 2.31 1.68 2.08 1.54 1.90 1.44 1.76 2.46 2.84 2.20 2.54 2.01 2.32 1.85 2.15 1.68 2.01 1.54 1.89 1.44 1.76 2.33 2.69 2.08 2.41 1.90 2.20 1.71 2.03 1.56 1.90 1.44 1.76 1.34 1.63 1.97 2.28 1.76 2.04 1.61 1.86 1.49 1.72 1.40 1.61 1.32 1.52 1.25 1.44
38x235 38x286 38x286 38x286
3.55 3.24 3.89 4.33 3.30 2.71 3.42 3.89 3.06 2.35 2.95 3.54 2.77 2.10 2.61 3.12 2.48 1.91 2.35 2.80 2.26 1.76 2.16 2.55 2.08 1.64 2.00 2.35 3.17 2.85 3.29 3.68 2.84 2.55 2.95 3.29 2.59 2.33 2.69 3.01 2.40 2.10 2.49 2.78 2.24 1.91 2.33 2.60 2.12 1.76 2.16 2.46 2.01 1.64 2.00 2.33 3.01 2.70 3.12 3.49 2.69 2.42 2.79 3.12 2.46 2.18 2.55 2.85 2.27 1.95 2.36 2.64 2.13 1.77 2.18 2.47 2.01 1.64 2.00 2.33 1.90 1.53 1.85 2.18 2.55 2.29 2.64 2.96 2.28 2.05 2.36 2.64 2.08 1.87 2.16 2.41 1.93 1.73 2.00 2.23 1.80 1.62 1.87 2.09 1.70 1.53 1.76 1.97 1.61 1.45 1.67 1.87
(1) Beam spans apply only where the floors serve residential areas as described in Table 4.1.5.3., or the uniformly distributed live load on the floors does not exceed that specified for residential areas as described in Table 4.1.5.3.
(2) When the floors have a concrete topping of not more than 51 mm, the spans must be multiplied by 0.8.
(3) Supported length means half the sum of the joist spans on both sides of the beam.
(4) Straight interpolation may be used for other supported lengths.
(5) Spans are clear spans between supports. For total span, add two bearing lengths.
(6) 3-ply beams with supported lengths greater than 4.2 m require 152 mm bearing. All other beams require 114 mm bearing.
Division B 9-434 National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
        © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Number of Storeys Supported
1
Beam Supported Width, mm Length, m(2)(3)
Maximum Span, m(4)(5)(6)(7) Beam Depth, mm
304 342 380
5.76 6.48 7.20 5.15 5.80 6.44 4.70 5.29 5.88 4.36 4.90 5.44 4.07 4.58 5.09 3.84 4.32 4.80 3.64 4.10 4.56 7.35 8.26 9.18 6.57 7.39 8.21 6.00 6.75 7.50 5.55 6.25 6.94 5.19 5.84 6.49 4.90 5.51 6.12 4.65 5.23 5.81 4.37 4.92 5.47 3.91 4.40 4.89 3.57 4.02 4.46 3.31 3.72 4.13 3.09 3.48 3.86 2.91 3.28 3.64 2.77 3.11 3.46 5.57 6.27 6.97 4.99 5.61 6.23 4.55 5.12 5.69 4.21 4.74 5.27 3.94 4.43 4.93 3.72 4.18 4.64 3.53 3.97 4.41
2
Table 9.23.4.2.-K
Maximum Spans for Glued-Laminated Floor Beams – 20f-E Grade(1) Forming Part of Sentences 9.3.2.8.(1), 9.23.4.2.(3), 9.23.4.4.(3) and 9.23.8.1.(1)
80 4.2
4.8 3.06 3.57
5.4 2.88 3.36 6.0 2.73 3.19 2.4 5.51 6.43 3.0 4.93 5.75 3.6 4.50 5.25
130 4.2
4.8 3.90 4.54
5.4 3.67 4.28 6.0 3.48 4.07 2.4 3.28 3.83 3.0 2.93 3.42 3.6 2.68 3.12
80 4.2
4.8 2.32 2.71
5.4 2.19 2.55 6.0 2.07 2.42 2.4 4.18 4.88 3.0 3.74 4.36 3.6 3.41 3.98
130 4.2
4.8 2.96 3.45
5.4 2.79 3.25 6.0 2.64 3.08
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Division B 9-435
228 266
418 456
7.92 8.64 7.09 7.73 6.47 7.06 5.99 6.53 5.60 6.11 5.28 5.76 5.01 5.47
10.10 11.02 9.03 9.86 8.25 9.00 7.64 8.33 7.14 7.79 6.73 7.35 6.39 6.97 6.01 6.56 5.38 5.87 4.91 5.36 4.54 4.96 4.25 4.64 4.01 4.37 3.80 4.15 7.66 8.36 6.85 7.48 6.26 6.83 5.79 6.32 5.42 5.91 5.11 5.57 4.85 5.29
2.4 4.32 5.04 3.0 3.87 4.51 3.6 3.53 4.12
3.27 3.81
4.16 4.86
2.48 2.89
3.16 3.69
Span Tables
        © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Span Tables
Number of Storeys Supported
3
Beam Supported Width, mm Length, m(2)(3)
Maximum Span, m(4)(5)(6)(7) Beam Depth, mm
304 342 380
3.66 4.12 4.58 3.28 3.69 4.10 2.99 3.37 3.74 2.77 3.12 3.46 2.59 2.91 3.24 2.44 2.75 3.05 2.32 2.61 2.90 4.67 5.25 5.84 4.18 4.70 5.22 3.81 4.29 4.77 3.53 3.97 4.41 3.30 3.72 4.13 3.11 3.50 3.89 2.95 3.32 3.69
Notes to Table 9.23.4.2.-K:
130 4.2
4.8 2.48 2.89
5.4 2.34 2.72 6.0 2.22 2.58
Table 9.23.4.2.-K (Continued)
228 266
418 456
5.04 5.50 4.51 4.92 4.11 4.49 3.81 4.15 3.56 3.89 3.36 3.66 3.19 3.48 6.42 7.01 5.74 6.27 5.24 5.72 4.85 5.30 4.54 4.95 4.28 4.67 4.06 4.43
2.4 2.75 3.21 3.0 2.46 2.87 3.6 2.24 2.62
80 4.2
4.8 1.94 2.27
5.4 1.83 2.14 6.0 1.74 2.03 2.4 3.50 4.09 3.0 3.13 3.66 3.6 2.86 3.34
2.08 2.42
2.65 3.09
(1) Spans apply only where the floors serve residential areas as described in Table 4.1.5.3., or the uniformly distributed live load on exceed that specified for residential areas as described in Table 4.1.5.3.
(2) Supported length means half the sum of the joist spans on both sides of the beam.
(3) Straight interpolation may be used for other supported lengths.
(4) Spans are valid for glued-laminated timber conforming to CAN/CSA-O122 and CSA O177.
(5) Spans are clear spans between supports. For total span, add two bearing lengths.
(6) Provide a minimum bearing length of 89 mm. (Alternatively, the bearing length may be designed in accordance with Part 4.)
(7) Top edge of beam assumed to be fully laterally supported by joists.
the floors does not
Division B 9-436 National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
      © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Table 9.23.4.2.-L
Maximum Spans for Built-up Ridge Beams and Lintels Supporting the Roof and Ceiling Only, No. 1 or No. 2 Grade Forming Part of Sentences 9.3.2.8.(1), 9.23.4.2.(4), 9.23.4.5.(1), 9.23.12.3.(1) and (3), and 9.23.14.10.(2)
Commercial Designation
Douglas Fir – Larch (includes Douglas Fir and Western Larch)
Hem – Fir (includes Western Hemlock and Amabilis Fir)
Spruce – Pine – Fir (includes Spruce
(all species except Coast Sitka Spruce) Jack Pine, Lodgepole Pine, Balsam Fir and Alpine Fir)
Beam or Lintel Size, mm
3-38x184 4-38x184 5-38x184 3-38x235 4-38x235 5-38x235 3-38x286 4-38x286 5-38x286 3-38x184 4-38x184 5-38x184 3-38x235 4-38x235 5-38x235 3-38x286 4-38x286 5-38x286 3-38x184 4-38x184 5-38x184 3-38x235 4-38x235 5-38x235 3-38x286 4-38x286 5-38x286
Maximum Span, m(1)(2)(3) Specified Snow Load, kPa
1.0 1.5 2.0
2.65 2.28 2.03 3.06 2.64 2.35 3.43 2.95 2.62 3.25 2.79 2.49 3.75 3.22 2.87 4.19 3.60 3.21 3.77 3.24 2.88 4.35 3.74 3.33 4.86 4.18 3.72 2.78 2.39 2.13 3.21 2.76 2.46 3.59 3.09 2.75 3.40 2.93 2.61 3.93 3.38 3.01 4.39 3.78 3.36 3.95 3.40 3.02 4.56 3.92 3.49 5.10 4.38 3.90 2.88 2.48 2.21 3.30 2.86 2.55 3.55 3.10 2.82 3.53 3.03 2.70 4.07 3.50 3.12 4.54 3.91 3.49 4.09 3.52 3.13 4.72 4.06 3.62 5.28 4.54 4.04
2.5
1.85 2.14 2.39 2.26 2.61 2.92 2.62 3.03 3.39 1.94 2.24 2.50 2.37 2.74 3.06 2.75 3.18 3.55 2.01 2.32 2.59 2.46 2.84 3.17 2.85 3.29 3.68
3.0
1.71 1.97 2.21 2.09 2.41 2.70 2.43 2.80 3.13 1.79 2.07 2.31 2.19 2.53 2.83 2.54 2.94 3.28 1.86 2.14 2.40 2.27 2.62 2.93 2.63 3.04 3.40
for supported lengths of not than 2.4 m.
Notes to Table 9.23.4.2.-L:
(1) Beam and lintel spans are calculated based on a maximum supported length of 4.9 m. Spans may be increased by 5% more than 4.3 m, by 10% for supported lengths of not more than 3.7 m, and by 25% for supported lengths of not more
(2) For ridge beams, supported length means half the sum of the rafter, joist or truss spans on both sides of the beam. For lintels, supported length means half the sum of truss, roof joist or rafter spans supported by the lintel plus the length of the overhang beyond the lintel.
(3) Provide minimum 76 mm bearing.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-437
Span Tables
       © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Span Tables
Table 9.23.12.3.-A
Maximum Spans for Douglas Fir – Larch Lintels – No. 1 or No. 2 Grade – Non-structural Sheathing(1) Forming Part of Sentences 9.3.2.8.(1), 9.23.4.5.(1) and 9.23.12.3.(1) and (3)
Maximum Span, m(3)(4) Exterior Walls
Specified Snow Load, kPa
2.0 2.5 3.0
This Area Intentionally Left Blank
2.34 2.13 1.97 1.86 3.68 3.34 3.10 2.92 4.84 4.39 4.08 3.84 5.97 5.56 5.21 4.88 6.92 6.44 6.09 5.66 1.07 0.96 0.87 0.80 1.53 1.36 1.24 1.15 1.86 1.66 1.51 1.40 2.28 2.03 1.85 1.71 2.64 2.35 2.14 1.98 0.88 0.82 0.77 0.73 1.26 1.17 1.10 1.04 1.53 1.42 1.34 1.26 1.88 1.74 1.63 1.54 2.18 2.02 1.90 1.79 0.81 0.77 0.73 0.70 1.16 1.09 1.04 0.99 1.41 1.33 1.27 1.21 1.72 1.63 1.55 1.48 2.00 1.89 1.80 1.72 0.77 0.73 0.71 0.68 1.10 1.05 1.01 0.97 1.33 1.28 1.22 1.18 1.63 1.56 1.50 1.44 1.89 1.81 1.74 1.67
(1) Where structural sheathing is used, lintel
panel conforming to CSA O121, CSA O151, CSA O325 or CSA O437.0 fastened with at least two rows of fasteners to the exterior face of the lintel, and a single row to the top plates and studs. Fasteners shall conform to Table 9.23.3.5.-A.
(2) A single piece of 89 mm thick lumber may be used in lieu of 2 pieces of 38 mm thick lumber on edge.
(3) If floor joists span the full width of the building without support, lintel spans shall be reduced by 15% for “roof, ceiling and 1 storey,” by 20% for “roof,
ceiling and 2 storeys,” and by 25% for “roof, ceiling and 3 storeys.”
(4) For ends of lintels fully supported by walls, provide minimum 38 mm bearing for lintel spans up to 3 m, or minimum 76 mm bearing for lintel
spans greater than 3 m.
(5) Spans for 0.6 m tributary width are calculated for lintels in end walls that support only a 0.6 m width of roof and ceiling, but do not support
roof joists, roof rafters or roof trusses.
Lintel Supporting
Limited attic storage and ceiling
Roof and ceiling only (tributary width of 0.6 m maximum)(5)
Roof and ceiling only (tributary width of 4.9 m maximum)(6)
Roof, ceiling and 1 storey(3)(6)(7)
Roof, ceiling and 2 storeys(3)(6)(7)
Roof, ceiling and 3 storeys(3)(6)(7)
Lintel Size,(2) mm
Interior Walls
1.25 1.78 2.17 2.65 3.08 1.97 3.10 4.08 5.21 6.09 0.87 1.24 1.51 1.85 2.14 0.68 0.97 1.18 1.44 1.67 0.61 0.87 1.06 1.30 1.51 0.57 0.82 1.00 1.22 1.41
Notes to Table 9.23.12.3.-A:
2-38x89
2-38x140
2-38x184
2-38x235
2-38x286
2-38x89 2.68 2-38x140 4.21 2-38x184 5.50 2-38x235 6.61 2-38x286 7.66 2-38x89 1.25 2-38x140 1.78 2-38x184 2.17 2-38x235 2.65 2-38x286 3.08 2-38x89 0.96 2-38x140 1.37 2-38x184 1.67 2-38x235 2.04 2-38x286 2.37 2-38x89 0.86 2-38x140 1.23 2-38x184 1.50 2-38x235 1.84 2-38x286 2.13 2-38x89 0.81 2-38x140 1.15 2-38x184 1.40 2-38x235 1.71 2-38x286 1.99
1.0 1.5
spans may be increased by 15%. Structural sheathing consists of a minimum 9.5 mm thick structural
Division B 9-438 National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
           © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Table 9.23.12.3.-A (Continued)
(6) Lintel spans are calculated based on a maximum floor joist, roof joist or rafter span of 4.9 m and a maximum roof truss span of 9.8 m. Lintel spans may be increased by 5% if rafter and joist spans are no greater than 4.3 m and roof truss spans are no greater than 8.6 m. Spans may be increased by 10% if rafter and joist spans are no greater than 3.7 m and roof truss spans are no greater than 7.4 m.
(7) Spans apply only where the floors serve residential areas as described in Table 4.1.5.3., or the uniformly distributed live load does not exceed that specified for residential areas as described in Table 4.1.5.3.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-439
Span Tables
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Span Tables
Lintel Supporting
Limited attic storage and ceiling
Roof and ceiling only (tributary width of 0.6 m maximum)(5)
Roof and ceiling only (tributary width of 4.9 m maximum)(6)
Roof, ceiling and 1 storey(3)(6)(7)
Roof, ceiling and 2 storeys(3)(6)(7)
Roof, ceiling and 3 storeys(3)(6)(7)
Lintel Size,(2) mm
2-38x89 2-38x140 2-38x184 2-38x235 2-38x286 2-38x89 2-38x140 2-38x184 2-38x235 2-38x286 2-38x89 2-38x140 2-38x184 2-38x235 2-38x286 2-38x89 2-38x140 2-38x184 2-38x235 2-38x286 2-38x89 2-38x140 2-38x184 2-38x235 2-38x286 2-38x89 2-38x140 2-38x184 2-38x235 2-38x286
1.0 1.5
Maximum Span, m(3)(4) Exterior Walls
Specified Snow Load, kPa
2.0 2.5 3.0
This Area Intentionally Left Blank
Interior Walls
1.31 1.87 2.27 2.78 3.23 1.97 3.10 4.08 5.21 6.09 0.91 1.30 1.58 1.92 2.17 0.69 0.95 1.12 1.35 1.55 0.60 0.82 0.98 1.19 1.37 0.55 0.76 0.91 1.10 1.27
Notes to Table 9.23.12.3.-B:
Table 9.23.12.3.-B
Maximum Spans for Hem – Fir Lintels – No. 1 or No. 2 Grade – Non-structural Sheathing(1) Forming Part of Sentences 9.3.2.8.(1), 9.23.4.5.(1) and 9.23.12.3.(1) and (3)
2.68 2.34 4.21 3.68 5.50 4.84 6.61 5.97 7.66 6.92 1.31 1.13 1.87 1.61 2.27 1.95 2.78 2.39 3.23 2.77 1.01 0.93 1.44 1.32 1.75 1.61 2.14 1.96 2.49 2.22 0.91 0.85 1.29 1.21 1.57 1.44 1.90 1.73 2.15 1.97 0.85 0.81 1.21 1.14 1.43 1.33 1.72 1.60 1.95 1.82
2.13 1.97 1.86 3.34 3.10 2.92 4.39 4.08 3.84 5.56 5.21 4.90 6.44 6.09 5.82 1.00 0.91 0.84 1.43 1.30 1.20 1.74 1.58 1.42 2.13 1.92 1.71 2.47 2.17 1.94 0.86 0.81 0.76 1.23 1.14 1.05 1.47 1.34 1.23 1.76 1.60 1.48 2.00 1.82 1.69 0.80 0.76 0.72 1.13 1.05 0.98 1.33 1.24 1.16 1.60 1.49 1.40 1.82 1.70 1.60 0.77 0.74 0.69 1.06 1.00 0.95 1.25 1.18 1.12 1.50 1.42 1.35 1.72 1.63 1.55
(1) Where structural sheathing is
panel conforming to CSA O121, CSA O151, CSA O325 or CSA O437.0 fastened with at least two rows of fasteners to the exterior face of the lintel, and a single row to the top plates and studs. Fasteners shall conform to Table 9.23.3.5.-A.
(2) A single piece of 89 mm thick lumber may be used in lieu of 2 pieces of 38 mm thick lumber on edge.
(3) If floor joists span the full width of the building without support, lintel spans shall be reduced by 15% for “roof, ceiling and 1 storey,” by 20% for “roof,
ceiling and 2 storeys,” and by 25% for “roof, ceiling and 3 storeys.”
(4) For ends of lintels fully supported by walls, provide minimum 38 mm bearing for lintel spans up to 3 m, or minimum 76 mm bearing for lintel
spans greater than 3 m.
(5) Spans for 0.6 m tributary width are calculated for lintels in end walls that support only a 0.6 m width of roof and ceiling, but do not support
roof joists, roof rafters or roof trusses.
used, lintel
spans may be increased by 15%. Structural sheathing consists of a minimum 9.5 mm thick structural
Division B 9-440 National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
           © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Table 9.23.12.3.-B (Continued)
(6) Lintel spans are calculated based on a maximum floor joist, roof joist or rafter span of 4.9 m and a maximum roof truss span of 9.8 m. Lintel spans may be increased by 5% if rafter and joist spans are no greater than 4.3 m and roof truss spans are no greater than 8.6 m. Spans may be increased by 10% if rafter and joist spans are no greater than 3.7 m and roof truss spans are no greater than 7.4 m.
(7) Spans apply only where the floors serve residential areas as described in Table 4.1.5.3., or the uniformly distributed live load does not exceed that specified for residential areas as described in Table 4.1.5.3.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-441
Span Tables
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Span Tables
Lintel Supporting
Limited attic storage and ceiling
Roof and ceiling only (tributary width of 0.6 m maximum)(5)
Roof and ceiling only (tributary width of 4.9 m maximum)(6)
Roof, ceiling and 1 storey(3)(6)(7)
Roof, ceiling and 2 storeys(3)(6)(7)
Roof, ceiling and 3 storeys(3)(6)(7)
Lintel Size,(2) mm
2-38x89 2-38x140 2-38x184 2-38x235 2-38x286 2-38x89 2-38x140 2-38x184 2-38x235 2-38x286 2-38x89 2-38x140 2-38x184 2-38x235 2-38x286 2-38x89 2-38x140 2-38x184 2-38x235 2-38x286 2-38x89 2-38x140 2-38x184 2-38x235 2-38x286 2-38x89 2-38x140 2-38x184 2-38x235 2-38x286
1.0 1.5
2.55 2.23 4.01 3.50 5.27 4.61 6.37 5.76 7.38 6.67 1.27 1.11 1.93 1.66 2.35 2.02 2.88 2.47 3.34 2.87 1.05 0.96 1.49 1.37 1.82 1.67 2.22 2.04 2.58 2.36 0.94 0.88 1.34 1.26 1.63 1.53 1.99 1.87 2.31 2.12 0.88 0.83 1.25 1.19 1.52 1.44 1.86 1.73 2.11 1.96
Maximum Span, m(3)(4) Exterior Walls
Specified Snow Load, kPa
2.0 2.5 3.0
Interior Walls
1.27
Table 9.23.12.3.-C
Maximum Spans for Spruce – Pine – Fir Lintels – No. 1 or No. 2 Grade – Non-structural Sheathing(1) Forming Part of Sentences 9.3.2.8.(1), 9.23.4.5.(1) and 9.23.12.3.(1) and (3)
Notes to Table 9.23.12.3.-C:
1.93 This Area Intentionally Left Blank 2.35 2.88 3.34 1.77 1.88 2.78 2.96 3.66 3.88 4.67 4.96 5.61 5.87 0.87 0.93 1.25 1.35 1.52 1.64 1.84 2.01 2.09 2.33 0.79 0.74 1.13 1.02 1.33 1.20 1.59 1.45 1.81 1.66 0.76 0.64 1.06 0.88 1.25 1.05 1.50 1.27 1.71 1.45 0.74 0.59 1.02 0.81 1.21 0.97 1.45 1.17 1.66 1.35
(1) Where structural sheathing is
panel conforming to CSA O121, CSA O151, CSA O325 or CSA O437.0 fastened with at least two rows of fasteners to the exterior face of the lintel, and a single row to the top plates and studs. Fasteners shall conform to Table 9.23.3.5.-A.
(2) A single piece of 89 mm thick lumber may be used in lieu of 2 pieces of 38 mm thick lumber on edge.
(3) If floor joists span the full width of the building without support, lintel spans shall be reduced by 15% for “roof, ceiling and 1 storey,” by 20% for “roof,
ceiling and 2 storeys,” and by 25% for “roof, ceiling and 3 storeys.”
(4) For ends of lintels fully supported by walls, provide minimum 38 mm bearing for lintel spans up to 3 m, or minimum 76 mm bearing for lintel
spans greater than 3 m.
(5) Spans for 0.6 m tributary width are calculated for lintels in end walls that support only a 0.6 m width of roof and ceiling, but do not support
roof joists, roof rafters or roof trusses.
used, lintel
spans may be increased by 15%. Structural sheathing consists of a minimum 9.5 mm thick structural
Division B 9-442 National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
2.02 1.88 3.18 2.96 4.18 3.88 5.34 4.96 6.21 5.87 1.01 0.93 1.48 1.35 1.80 1.64 2.20 2.01 2.56 2.33 0.89 0.84 1.27 1.19 1.55 1.44 1.89 1.73 2.15 1.96 0.83 0.79 1.19 1.13 1.44 1.33 1.72 1.60 1.96 1.82 0.80 0.77 1.14 1.08 1.35 1.27 1.62 1.53 1.84 1.74
           © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Table 9.23.12.3.-C (Continued)
(6) Lintel spans are calculated based on a maximum floor joist, roof joist or rafter span of 4.9 m and a maximum roof truss span of 9.8 m. Lintel spans may be increased by 5% if rafter and joist spans are no greater than 4.3 m and roof truss spans are no greater than 8.6 m. Spans may be increased by 10% if rafter and joist spans are no greater than 3.7 m and roof truss spans are no greater than 7.4 m.
(7) Spans apply only where the floors serve residential areas as described in Table 4.1.5.3., or the uniformly distributed live load does not exceed that specified for residential areas as described in Table 4.1.5.3.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-443
Span Tables
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Span Tables
Table 9.23.12.3.-D
Maximum Spans for Glued-Laminated Timber Lintels – 20f-E Stress Grade – Exterior Walls – Roof and Ceiling Load Only Forming Part of Sentences 9.3.2.8.(1), 9.23.4.5.(1) and 9.23.12.3.(1) and (3)
Lintel Size, mm
130 x 304 80x380 130 x 342 80x418 130 x 380 80x456 130 x 418 80x494 80x532 130 x 456
1.0
6.23 5.63 5.24 5.63 6.52 5.89 5.48 5.89 6.80 6.15 5.72 6.15 7.00 6.33 5.89 6.33 7.36 6.65 6.19 6.65 7.48 6.76 6.29 6.76 7.91 7.15 6.65 7.15 7.94 7.17 6.68 7.17 8.39 7.58 7.06 7.58 8.44 7.63 7.10 7.63
1.5
Maximum Span, m(1)(2)(3) Specified Snow Load, kPa
2.0
5.24 4.73 4.40 5.48 4.96 4.52 5.72 5.17 4.81 5.89 5.32 4.96 6.19 5.59 5.21 6.29 5.68 5.29 6.65 6.01 5.59 6.68 6.03 5.61 7.06 6.38 5.93 7.10 6.41 5.97
2.5 3.0
4.95 4.48 4.17 4.73 4.28 3.87 5.19 4.69 4.11 4.96 4.39 3.80 5.41 4.89 4.55 5.17 4.67 4.35 5.57 5.03 4.52 5.32 4.81 4.18 5.86 5.29 4.92 5.59 5.06 4.70 5.95 5.37 4.93 5.68 5.13 4.56 6.29 5.68 5.29 6.01 5.43 5.05 6.31 5.71 5.31 6.03 5.45 4.94 6.67 6.03 5.61 6.38 5.76 5.32 6.71 6.07 5.65 6.41 5.80 5.39
Notes to Table 9.23.12.3.-D:
Supported length, m(4)(5)
Supported length, m(4)(5)
Supported length, m(4)(5)
Supported length, m(4)(5)
Supported length, m(4)(5) 2.4 3.6 4.8 2.4 3.6 4.8 2.4 3.6 4.8 2.4 3.6 4.8 2.4 3.6 4.8
5.09 4.73 5.32 4.96 5.56 5.17 5.72 5.32 6.01 5.59 6.10 5.68 6.46 6.01 6.48 6.03 6.85 6.38 6.89 6.41
(1) Spans are valid for glued-laminated timber conforming to
(2) Provide minimum 89 mm bearing. (Alternatively, the bearing length may be calculated in accordance with Part 4.)
(3) Top edge of lintel assumed to be fully laterally supported.
(4) Supported length means half the length of trusses or rafters, plus the length of the overhang beyond the wall.
(5) For intermediate supported lengths, straight interpolation may be used.
CAN/CSA-O122 and CSA O177.
Division B 9-444 National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
                © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
Notes to Part 9
Housing and Small Buildings
A-9.1.1.1.(1) Application of Part 9 to Seasonally and Intermittently Occupied
Buildings. The National Building Code does not provide separate requirements which would apply to seasonally or intermittently occupied buildings. Without compromising the basic health and safety provisions, however, various requirements in Part 9 recognize that leniency may be appropriate in some circumstances. With greater use of “cottages” through the winter months, the proliferation of seasonally occupied multiple-dwelling buildings and the increasing installation of modern conveniences in these buildings, the number and extent of possible exceptions is reduced.
Thermal Insulation
Article 9.25.2.1. specifies that insulation is to be installed in walls, ceilings and floors which separate heated space from unheated space. Cottages intended for use only in the summer and which, therefore, have no space heating appliances, would not be required to be insulated. Should a heating system be installed at some later date, insulation should also be installed at that time. In the case of row units intended for intermittent winter use, the walls between the dwelling units may at times separate heated space from unheated space. In this case, the installation of insulation might be considered.
Air Barrier Systems and Vapour Barriers
Articles 9.25.3.1. and 9.25.4.1. require the installation of air barrier systems and vapour barriers only where insulation is installed. Dwellings with no heating system would thus be exempt from these requirements.
Interior Wall and Ceiling Finishes
The choice of interior wall and ceiling finishes has implications for fire safety. Where a dwelling is a detached building, there are no fire resistance requirements for the walls or ceilings within the dwelling. The exposed surfaces of walls and ceilings are required to have a flame-spread rating not greater than 150 (Subsection 9.10.17.). There is, therefore, considerable flexibility, even in continuously occupied dwellings, with respect to the materials used to finish these walls. Except where waterproof finishes are required (Subsection 9.29.2.), ceilings and walls may be left unfinished. Where two units adjoin, however, additional fire resistance requirements may apply to interior loadbearing walls, floors and the shared wall (Article 9.10.8.3., and Subsections 9.10.9. and 9.10.11.).
Plumbing and Electrical Facilities
Plumbing fixtures are required only where a piped water supply is available (Subsection 9.31.4.), and electrical facilities only where electrical services are available (Article 9.34.1.2.).
A-9.3.1.7. Ratio of Water to Cementing Material. While adding water to concrete on site may facilitate its distribution through formwork, this practice can have several undesirable results, such as reduced strength, greater porosity, and more propensity to shrinkage cracking. The ratio of water to cementing material is determined according to weight. For example, using Table 9.3.1.7., the maximum water-cement ratio of 0.45 for a 20 mm coarse aggregate would require 18 kg (or 18 L) of water (1 L of water weighs 1 kg).
These Notes are included for explanatory purposes only and do not form part of the requirements. The number that introduces each Note corresponds to the applicable requirement in this Part.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-445
  © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-9.3.2.1.(1) Division B
A-9.3.2.1.(1) Grade Marking of Lumber. Lumber is generally grouped for marketing into the species combinations contained in Table A-9.3.2.1.(1)-A. The maximum allowable spans for those combinations are listed in the span tables for joists, rafters and beams. Some species of lumber are also marketed individually. Since the allowable span for the northern species combination is based on the weakest species in the combination, the use of the span for this combination is permitted for any individual species not included in the Spruce-Pine-Fir, Douglas Fir-Larch and Hemlock-Fir combinations.
Facsimiles of typical grade marks of lumber associations and grading agencies accredited by the
Canadian Lumber Standards (CLS) Accreditation Board to grade mark lumber in Canada are shown in
Table A-9.3.2.1.(1)-B. Accreditation by the CLS Accreditation Board applies to the inspection, grading and grade marking of lumber, including mill supervisory service, in accordance with CSA O141, “Softwood Lumber.”
The grade mark of a CLS accredited agency on a piece of lumber indicates its assigned grade, species or species combination, moisture condition at the time of surfacing, the responsible grader or mill of origin and the CLS accredited agency under whose supervision the grading and marking was done.
Commercial Designation of Species or Species Combination
Douglas Fir – Larch Hemlock – Fir
Spruce – Pine – Fir Northern Species
Table A-9.3.2.1.(1)-A
Species Designations and Abbreviations Forming Part of Note A-9.3.2.1.(1)
Abbreviation Permitted on Grade Stamps
D Fir – L (N)
Hem – Fir (N)
S – P – F or Spruce – Pine – Fir
North Species
Canadian lumber is graded to the “Standard Grading Rules for Canadian Lumber,” published by the National Lumber Grades Authority. These rules specify standard grade names and grade name abbreviations for use in grade marks to provide positive identification of lumber grades. In a similar fashion, standard species names or standard species abbreviations, symbols or marks are provided in the rules for use in grade marks.
Grade marks denote the moisture content of lumber at the time of surfacing. “S-Dry” in the mark indicates the lumber was surfaced at a moisture content not exceeding 19%. “MC 15” indicates a moisture content not exceeding 15%. “S-GRN” in the grade mark signifies that the lumber was surfaced at a moisture content higher than 19% at a size to allow for natural shrinkage during seasoning.
Each mill or grader is assigned a permanent number. The point of origin of lumber is identified in the grade mark by use of a mill or grader number or by the mill name or abbreviation. The CLS certified agency under whose supervision the lumber was grade marked is identified in the mark by the registered symbol of
the agency.
Table A-9.3.2.1.(1)-B
Facsimiles of Grade Marks Used by Canadian Lumber Manufacturing Associations and Agencies Authorized to Grade Mark Lumber in Canada
Forming Part of Note A-9.3.2.1.(1)
Facsimiles of Grade Mark
Association or Agency
9-446 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Species Included
Douglas Fir, Western Larch Western Hemlock, Amabilis Fir
White Spruce, Engelmann Spruce, Black Spruce, Red Spruce, Lodgepole Pine, Jack Pine, Alpine Fir, Balsam Fir
Any Canadian softwood covered by the “Standard Grading Rules for Canadian Lumber”
         A.F.P.A. 00 S–P–F NLGA 1 KD-HT
®
GG00056B
 Alberta Forest Products Association www.albertaforestproducts.ca
  © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
A-9.3.2.1.(1)
Facsimiles of Grade Mark
Association or Agency
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Division B 9-447
Table A-9.3.2.1.(1)-B (Continued)
      CMSA
No1 KD-HT NLGA
®
100 S-P-F GG00062B
 Canadian Mill Services Association www.canserve.org
  CSI
®
00
NLGA
No.1
KD-HT
D FIR-L (N) GG00098A
 Canadian Softwood Inspection Agency Inc. www.canadiansoftwood.com
  ®
NLGA
26
2
GG00058B
S-P-F KD-HT
 Central Forest Products Association Inc. c/o Alberta Forest Products Association www.albertaforestproducts.ca
  91
NLGA
25
NLGA
®
KD-HT 1
S-P-F KD-HT
1
®
D FIR - L(N) GG00057B
 Council of Forest Industries www.cofi.org
  No. 2
5 KD-HT
® S-P-F
 NLGA
GG00064B
 Macdonald Inspection Services Ltd. www.gradestamp.com
   GG00065B
 M L®
B
S-P-F No.1 KD-HT
99 NLGA
 Maritime Lumber Bureau www.mlb.ca
       © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-9.3.2.1.(1)
Division B
Facsimiles of Grade Mark
Association or Agency
Table A-9.3.2.1.(1)-B (Continued)
9-448 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
    GG00066B
 Newfoundland & Labrador Lumber Producers’ Association www3.nf.sympatico.ca/nllpa
 N L P A®
N L G A S-P-F
NO.1 000 KD HT
   10 CONST S-P-F
S-GRN
NLGA
GG00067B
 Northwest Territories Forest Industries Association
  ®
CLA 100
1NLGA S-P-F KD-HT GG00059B
 Ontario Forest Industries Association www.ofia.com
  ® O.L.M.A. 09
1
KD-HT
NLGA S-P-F GG00068B
 Ontario Lumber Manufacturers’ Association (Home of CLA Grading and Inspection) www.olma.ca
   ® 00
NO. 1
KD-HT
S-P-F
NLGA RULES
GG00069B
 Pacific Lumber Inspection Bureau www.plib.org
  ® S-P-F KD-HT
1
477 NLGA GG00070B
  Quebec Forest Industry Council
(Conseil de l’industrie forestière du Québec) www.qfic.gc.ca
       © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 202,adanaCudsehcrehceredlanoitanliesnoCelrapétnesérper,adanaCudfehcudioRelétsejaMaS©202,adanaCfolicnuoChcraeseRlanoitaNehtybdetneserpersa,adanaCfothgiRnigniKehtytsejaMsiH©
Division B A-9.3.2.9.(1)
A-Table 9.3.2.1. Lumber Grading. To identify board grades, the paragraph number of the NLGA “Standard Grading Rules for Canadian Lumber” under which the lumber is graded must be shown in the grade mark. Paragraph 113 is equivalent to the WWPA “Western Lumber Grading Rules” and paragraph 114 is equivalent to the WCLIB “Standard Grading Rules.” When graded in accordance with WWPA or WCLIB rules, the grade mark will not contain a paragraph number.
A-9.3.2.8.(1) Non-Standard Lumber. NLGA 2014, “Standard Grading Rules for Canadian Lumber,” permits lumber to be dressed to sizes below the standard sizes (38 × 89, 38 × 140, 38 × 184, etc.) provided the grade stamp shows the reduced size. This Sentence permits the use of the span tables for such lumber, provided the size indicated on the stamp is not less than 95% of the corresponding standard size. Allowable spans in the tables must be reduced a full 5% even if the undersize is less than the 5% permitted.
A-9.3.2.9.(1)
Protection from Termites.
Yukon
British Columbia
Northwest Territories
Alberta
Nunavut
Areas in which specific locations with termites have been identified.
Figure A-9.3.2.9.(1)-A
Known termite locations
Note to Figure A-9.3.2.9.(1)-A:
EG02049A
(1) Reference: J.K. Mauldin (1982), N.Y. Su (1995), T. Myles (1997).
Saskatchewan
Quebec
P.E.I.
New Brunswick
Nova Scotia
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Division B
9-449
Manitoba
Hudson Bay
Newfoundland

 A-9.3.2.9.(3) Division B
Figure A-9.3.2.9.(1)-B
Clearances under structural wood elements and visibility of supporting elements where required to permit inspection for termite infestation
Note to Figure A-9.3.2.9.(1)-B:
(1) For the height of structural wood elements not directly above finished ground, see Article 9.23.2.3.
A-9.3.2.9.(3) Protection of Structural Wood Elements from Moisture and Decay. There are many above-ground, structural wood systems where precipitation is readily trapped or drying is slow, creating conditions conducive to decay. Beams extending beyond roof decks, junctions between deck members, and connections between balcony guards and walls are three examples of elements that can accumulate water when exposed to precipitation if they are not detailed to allow drainage.
A-9.3.2.9.(4) Protection of Retaining Walls and Cribbing from Decay. Retaining walls supporting soil are considered to be structural elements of the building if a line drawn from the outer edge of the footing to the bottom of the exposed face of the retaining wall is greater than 45° to the horizontal. Retaining walls supporting soil may be structural elements of the building if the line described above has a lower slope.
Figure A-9.3.2.9.(4)
Identifying retaining walls that require preservative treatment
Retaining walls that are not critical to the support of building foundations but are greater than 1.2 m in height may pose a danger of sudden collapse to persons adjacent to the wall if the wood is not adequately protected from decay. The height of the retaining wall or cribbing is measured as the vertical difference between the ground levels on each side of the wall.
A-9.4.1.1. Structural Design. Article 9.4.1.1. establishes the principle that the structural members of Part 9 buildings must
• comply with the prescriptive requirements provided in Part 9,
• be designed in accordance with accepted good practice, or
• bedesignedinaccordancewithPart4usingtheloadsandlimitsondeflectionandvibrationspecifiedin
Part 9 or Part 4.
9-450 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
          ≥ 450 mm ≥ 450 mm
clear height of 450 mm between supporting elements visible structural wood elements and to permit inspection(1) finished ground directly below
EG02050B
           wall height
< 45 ̊: retaining wall may be supporting the building
> 45 ̊: retaining wall is supporting the building
EG02051A
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B A-9.4.2.2.
Usually a combination of approaches is used. For example, even if the snow load calculation on a wood roof truss is based on Subsection 9.4.2., the joints must be designed in accordance with Part 4. Wall framing may comply with the prescriptive requirements in Subsections 9.23.3., 9.23.10., 9.23.11. and 9.23.12., while the floor framing may be engineered.
Design according to Part 4 or accepted good engineering practice, such as that described in CWC 2014, “Engineering Guide for Wood Frame Construction,” requires engineering expertise. The CWC Guide contains alternative solutions and provides information on the applicability of the Part 9 prescriptive structural requirements to further assist designers and building officials to identify the appropriate design approach. The need for professional involvement in the structural design of a building, whether to Part 4 or Part 9 requirements or accepted good practice, is defined by provincial and territorial legislation.
A-9.4.2.1.(1) Soft Conversion from Imperial Units. The conversion table at the end of the Code provides factors for the conversion of millimeters to inches. However, not all metric measurements stated
in the Code are exact conversions. For example, while the dimensions given for wood framing members
are the exact dimensions of the milled product—i.e., what is commonly referred to as a “2 x 4” is actually 1.5 in. x 3.5 in., which, in mm, is 38 x 89—the metric dimensions given for spacing between framing elements are actually soft conversions:
Imperial Unit
12 in. 16 in. 24 in.
Table A-9.4.2.1.(1)
Exact Metric Conversion
305 mm 406 mm 610 mm
Soft Metric Conversion Used in Code
300 mm 400 mm 600 mm
It remains common construction practice to arrange joists, rafters and studs in 12, 16 or 24 in. increments so as to properly align them with the edges of sheathing materials. It is therefore assumed that structural elements will be spaced according to the actual metric equivalents.
A-9.4.2.2. Application of Simplified Part 9 Snow Loads. The simplified specified snow loads described in Article 9.4.2.2. may be used where the structure is of the configuration that is typical of traditional wood-frame residential construction and its performance. This places limits on the spacing of joists, rafters and trusses, the spans of these members and supporting members, deflection under load, overall dimensions of the roof and the configuration of the roof. It assumes considerable redundancy in the structure.
Because very large buildings may be constructed under Part 9 by constructing firewalls to break up the building area, it is possible to have Part 9 buildings with very large roofs. The simplified specified snow loads may not be used when the total roof area of the overall structure exceeds 4 550 m2. Thus, the simplified specified snow load calculation may be used for typical townhouse construction but would not be appropriate for much larger commercial or industrial buildings, for example.
The simplified specified snow loads are also not designed to take into account roof configurations that seriously exacerbate snow accumulation. This does not pertain to typical projections above a sloped roof, such as dormers, nor does it pertain to buildings with higher and lower roofs. Although two-level roofs generally lead to drift loading, smaller light-frame buildings constructed according to Part 9 have not failed under these loads. Consequently, the simplified calculation may be used in these cases. Rather, this limitation on application of the simplified calculation pertains to roofs with high parapets or significant other projections above the roof, such as elevator penthouses, mechanical rooms or larger equipment that would effectively collect snow and preclude its blowing off the roof.
The reference to Article 9.4.3.1. invokes, for roof assemblies other than common lumber trusses, the same performance criteria for deflection.
The specific weight of snow on roofs, γ, obtained from measurements at a number of weather stations across Canada varied from about 1.0 to 4.5 kN/m3. An average value for use in design in lieu of better local data is
γ = 3.0 kN/m 3. In some locations the specific weight of snow may be considerably greater than 3.0 kN/m3. Such locations include regions where the maximum snow load on the roof is reached only after contributions from many snowstorms, coastal regions, and regions where winter rains are considerable and where a specific weight as high as 4.0 kN/m 3 may be appropriate.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Amended Page Division B 9-451
     © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-9.4.2.3.(1) Division B
A-9.4.2.3.(1) Accessible Platforms Subject to Snow and Occupancy Loads. Many platforms are subject to both occupancy loads and snow loads. These include balconies, decks, verandas, flat roofs
over garages and carports. Where such a platform, or a segregated area of such a platform, serves a single dwelling unit, it must be designed for the greater of either the specified snow load or an occupancy load of
1.9 kPa. Where the platform serves more than one single dwelling unit or an occupancy other than a residential occupancy, higher occupancy loads will apply as specified in Table 4.1.5.3.
A-9.4.2.4.(1) Specified Loads for Attics or Roof Spaces with Limited Accessibility. Typical residential roofs are framed with roof trusses and the ceiling is insulated.
Residential trusses are placed at 600 mm on centre with web members joining top and bottom chords. Lateral web bracing is installed perpendicular to the span of the trusses. As a result, there is limited room for movement inside the attic or roof space or for storage of material. Access hatches are generally built to the minimum acceptable dimensions, further limiting the size of material that can be moved into the attic or roof space.
With exposed insulation in the attic or roof space, access is not recommended unless protective clothing and breathing apparatus are worn.
Thus the attic or roof space is recognized as uninhabitable and loading can be based on actual dead load. In emergency situations or for the purpose of inspection, it is possible for a person to access the attic or roof space without over-stressing the truss or causing damaging deflections.
A-Table 9.4.4.1. Classification of Soils. Sand or gravel may be classified by means of a picket test in which a 38 mm by 38 mm picket beveled at the end at 45° to a point is pushed into the soil. Such material is classified as “dense or compact” if a man of average weight cannot push the picket more than 200 mm into the soil and “loose” if the picket penetrates 200 mm or more.
Clay and silt may be classified as “stiff” if it is difficult to indent by thumb pressure, “firm” if it can be indented by moderate thumb pressure, “soft” if it can be easily penetrated by thumb pressure, where this test is carried out on undisturbed soil in the wall of a test pit.
A-9.4.4.4.(1) Soil Movement. In susceptible soils, changes in temperature or moisture content can cause significant expansion and contraction. Soils containing pyrites can expand simply on exposure to air.
Expansion and Contraction due to Moisture
Clay soils are most prone to expansion and contraction due to moisture. Particularly wet seasons can sufficiently increase the volume of the soil under and around the structure to cause heaving of foundations and floors-on-ground, or cracking of foundation walls. Particularly dry seasons or draw-down of water
by fast-growing trees can decrease the volume of the soil supporting foundations and floors-on-ground, thus causing settling.
Frost Heave
Frost heave is probably the most commonly recognized phenomenon related to freezing soil. Frost heave results when moisture in frost-susceptible soil (clay and silt) under the footings freezes and expands. This mechanism is addressed by requirements in Section 9.12. regarding the depth of excavations.
Ice Lenses
When moisture in frost-susceptible soils freezes, it forms an ice lens and reduces the vapour pressure in the soil in the area immediately around the lens. Moisture in the ground redistributes to rebalance the vapour pressures providing more moisture in the area of the ice lens. This moisture freezes to the lens and the cycle repeats itself. As the ice lens grows, it exerts pressure in the direction of heat flow. When lenses
form close to foundations and heat flow is toward the foundation—as may be the case with unheated crawl spaces or open concrete block foundations insulated on the interior—the forces may be sufficient to crack the foundation.
Adfreezing
Ice lenses can adhere themselves to cold foundations. Where heat flow is essentially upward, parallel to the foundation, the pressures exerted will tend to lift the foundation. This may cause differential movement or cracking of the foundation. Heat loss through basement foundations of cast-in-place concrete or concrete block insulated on the exterior appears to be sufficient to prevent adfreezing. Care must be taken where the
9-452 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B A-9.5.5.3.
foundation does not enclose heated space or where open block foundations are insulated on the interior. The installation of semi-rigid glass fibre insulation has demonstrated some effectiveness as a separation layer to absorb the adfreezing forces.
Pyrites
Pyrite is the most common iron disulphide mineral in rock and has been identified in rock of all types and ages. It is most commonly found in metamorphic and sedimentary rock, and especially in coal and shale deposits.
Weathering of pyritic shale is a chemical-microbiological oxidation process that results in volume increases that can heave foundations and floors-on-ground. Concentrations of as little as 0.1% by weight have caused heaving. Weathering can be initiated simply by exposing the pyritic material to air. Thus, building on
soils that contain pyrites in concentrations that will cause damage to the building should be avoided, or measures should be taken to remove the material or seal it. Material containing pyrites should not be used for backfill at foundations or for supporting foundations or floors-on-ground.
Where it is not known if the soil or backfill contains pyritic material in a deleterious concentration, a test is available to identify its presence and concentration.
References:
(1) Legget, R.F. and Crawford, C.B. Trees and Buildings. Canadian Building Digest 62, Division of Building Research, National Research Council Canada, Ottawa, 1965.
(2) Hamilton, J.J. Swelling and Shrinking Subsoils. Canadian Building Digest 84, Division of Building Research, National Research Council Canada, Ottawa, 1966.
(3) Hamilton, J.J. Foundations on Swelling and Shrinking Subsoils. Canadian Building Digest 184, Division of Building Research, National Research Council Canada, Ottawa, 1977.
(4) Penner, W., Eden, W.J., and Gratten-Bellew, P.E. Expansion of Pyritic Shales. Canadian Building Digest 152, Division of Building Research, National Research Council Canada, Ottawa, 1975.
(5) Swinton, M.C., Brown, W.C., and Chown, G.A. Controlling the Transfer of Heat, Air and Moisture through the Building Envelope. Small Buildings - Technology in Transition, Building Science Insight ’90, Institute for Research in Construction, National Research Council Canada, Ottawa, 1990.
A-9.4.4.6. and 9.15.1.1. Loads on Foundations. The prescriptive solutions provided in Part 9 relating to footings and foundation walls only account for the loads imposed by drained earth. Drained earth is assumed to exert a load equivalent to the load that would be exerted by a fluid with a density of 480 kg/m3. The prescriptive solutions do not account for surcharges from saturated soil or additional loads from heavy objects located adjacent to the building. Where such surcharges are expected, the footings and foundation walls must be designed and constructed according to Part 4.
A-9.5.1.2. Combination Rooms. If a room draws natural light and natural ventilation from another area, the opening between the two areas must be large enough to effectively provide sufficient light and air. This is why a minimum opening of 3 m2 is required, or the equivalent of a set of double doors. The effectiveness of the transfer of light and air also depends on the size of the transfer opening in relation to the size of the dependent room; in measuring the area of the wall separating the two areas, the whole wall on the side of the dependent room should be considered, not taking into account offsets that may be in the surface of the wall.
The opening does not necessarily have to be in the form of a doorway; it may be an opening at eye level. However, if the dependent area is a bedroom, provision must be made for the escape window required by Article 9.9.10.1. to fulfill its safety function. This is why a direct passage is required between the bedroom and the other area; the equivalent of at least a doorway is therefore required for direct passage between the two areas.
A-9.5.5.3. Doorways to Rooms with a Bathtub, Shower or Water Closet. The intent of Article 9.5.5.3. is to ensure a certain degree of barrier-free access to rooms that provide some or all of the facilities found in a typical residential bathroom.
If the minimum 860 mm hallway serves more than one room with identical facilities, only one of the rooms is required to have a door not less than 760 mm wide.
If a number of rooms have different facilities, for example, one room has a shower, lavatory and water closet, and another room has a lavatory and water closet, the room with the shower, lavatory and water closet must have the minimum 760 mm wide door. Where multiple rooms provide the same or similar facilities, one of these rooms must comply with the requirement to have at least one bathtub or shower, one lavatory and one
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-453
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-9.6.1.2.(2) Division B
water closet. Where the fixtures are located in two separate rooms served by the same hallway, the requirement for the minimum doorway width would apply to both rooms.
If the minimum 860 mm hallway does not serve any room containing a bathtub, shower and water closet, additional fixtures do not need to be installed.
A-9.6.1.2.(2) Mirrored Glass Doors. CAN/CGSB-82.6-M, “Doors, Mirrored Glass, Sliding or Folding, Wardrobe,” covers mirrored glass doors for use on reach-in closets. It specifies that such doors are not to be used for walk-in closets.
A-9.6.1.3.(2) Maximum Glass Area. Tables 9.6.1.3.-A to 9.6.1.3.-F are based on CAN/CGSB-12.20-M, “Structural Design of Glass for Buildings,” and the wind load provisions in Article 4.1.7.3. The maximum glass area values given in these Tables are intended to be equal to or smaller than those that would be determined using the standard and wind load provisions directly to design for each individual case.
A-Table 9.6.1.3.-G Glass in Doors. Maximum areas in Table 9.6.1.3.-G for other than fully tempered glazing are cut off at 1.50 m2, as this would be the practical limit after which safety glass would be required by Sentence 9.6.1.4.(2).
A-9.7.2.3.(1)(a) Glazed Area. The percentage of natural light may vary from one room to the other, but the total area must comply with the percentage required for the area of the dwelling unit. For the purposes of this Article, the unobstructed glass area of a door or a skylight is considered equal to that of a window.
A-9.7.3.2.(1)(a) Minimizing Condensation. The total prevention of condensation on the surfaces of fenestration products is difficult to achieve and, depending on the design and construction of the window or door, may not be absolutely necessary. Clause 9.7.3.2.(1)(a) therefore requires that condensation be minimized, which means that the amount of moisture that condenses on the inside surface of a window, door or skylight, and the frequency at which this occurs, must be limited. The occurrence of such condensation must be sufficiently rare, the accumulation of any water must be sufficiently small, and drying must be sufficiently rapid to prevent the deterioration of moisture-susceptible materials and the growth of fungi.
A-9.7.4.2.(1) Standards Referenced for Windows, Doors and Skylights.
Canadian Requirements in the Harmonized Standard
In addition to referencing the Canadian Supplement, CSA A440S1, “Canadian Supplement to AAMA/WDMA/CSA 101/I.S.2/A440-17, NAFS – North American Fenestration Standard/Specification for Windows, Doors, and Skylights,” the Harmonized Standard, AAMA/WDMA/CSA 101/I.S.2/A440, “NAFS – North American Fenestration Standard/Specification for Windows, Doors, and Skylights,” contains some Canada-specific test criteria.
Standards Referenced for Excluded Products
Clause 1.1, General, of the Harmonized Standard defines the limits to the application of the standard with respect to various types of fenestration products. A list of exceptions to the application statement identifies a number of standards that apply to excluded products. Compliance with those standards is not required by the Code; the references are provided for information purposes only.
Label Indicating Performance and Compliance with Standard
The Canadian Supplement requires that a product’s performance ratings be indicated on a label according to the designation requirements in the Harmonized Standard and that the label include
• design pressure, where applicable,
• negative design pressure, where applicable,
• water penetration test pressure, and
• the Canadian air infiltration and exfiltration levels.
It should be noted that, for a product to carry a label in Canada, it must meet all of the applicable requirements of both the Harmonized Standard and the Canadian Supplement, including the forced entry requirements.
9-454 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B A-9.7.4.2.(1)
Water Penetration Resistance
For the various performance grades listed in the Harmonized Standard, the corresponding water penetration resistance test pressures are a percentage of the design pressure. For R-class products, water penetration resistance test pressures are 15% of design pressure. In Canada, driving rain wind pressures (DRWP) have been determined for the locations listed in Appendix C.
To achieve equivalent levels of water penetration resistance for all locations, the Canadian Supplement includes a provision for calculating specified DRWP at the building site considering building exposure. Specified DRWP values are, in some cases, greater than 15% of design pressure and, in other cases, less than 15% of design pressure. For a fenestration product to comply with the Code, it must be able to resist the structural and water penetration loads at the building site. Reliance on a percentage of design pressure
for water penetration resistance in the selection of an acceptable fenestration product will not always
be adequate. Design pressure values are reported on a secondary designator, which is required by the Canadian Supplement to be affixed to the window. The DRWP given in the Canadian Supplement should be used for all products covered in the scope of the Harmonized Standard.
Uniform Load Structural Test
The Harmonized Standard specifies that fenestration products be tested at 150% of design pressure for wind (specified wind load) and that skylights and roof windows be tested at 200% of design pressure for snow (specified snow load). With the change in the NBC 2005 to a 1-in-50 return period for wind load,
a factor of 1.4 rather than 1.5 is now applied for wind. The NBC has traditionally applied a factor of 1.5 rather than 2.0 for snow. Incorporating these lower load factors into the Code requirements for fenestration would better reflect acceptable minimum performance levels; however, this has not been done in order
to avoid adding complexity to the Code, to recognize the benefits of Canada-US harmonization, and to recognize that differentiation of products that meet the Canadian versus the US requirements would add complexity for manufacturers, designers, specifiers and regulatory officials.
Condensation Resistance
The Harmonized Standard identifies three test procedures that can be used to determine the condensation resistance of windows and doors. Only the physical test procedure given in CSA A440.2, “Fenestration Energy Performance,” can be used to establish Temperature Index (I) values. Computer simulation tools can also be used to estimate the relative condensation resistance of windows, but these methods employ different expressions of performance known as Condensation Resistance Factors (CR). I and CR values are not interchangeable.
Where removable multiple glazing panels (RMGP) are installed on the inside of a window, care should be taken to hermetically seal the RMGP against the leakage of moisture-laden air from the interior into the cavity on the exterior of the RMGP because the moisture transported by the air could lead to significant condensation on the interior surface of the outside glazing.
Basement Windows
Clause 12.4.2, Basement Windows, of the Harmonized Standard refers to products that are intended to meet Code requirements for ventilation and emergency egress. The minimum test size of 800 mm x 360 mm (total area of 0.288 m2) specified in the standard will not provide the minimum openable area required by the Code for bedrooms (i.e. 0.35 m2 with no dimension less than 380 mm) and the means to provide minimum open area identified in the standard is inconsistent with the requirements of the Code (see Subsection 9.9.10. for bedroom windows). The minimum test size specified in the standard will also not provide the minimum ventilation area of 0.28 m2 required for non-heating-season natural ventilation (see Article 9.32.2.2.).
Greenhouse Windows
Greenhouse-type windows feature a sloped, roof-like top portion, which is subjected to the same snow loads as roofs. The Canadian Supplement only applies the snow load calculation to skylights, which do not include greenhouse windows according to the definition for skylights given in the Canadian Supplement and the Harmonized Standard. Where such windows are used, it is recommended that snow loads on the top portion of the window be taken into account.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-455
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-9.7.5.2.(1) Division B
Performance of Doors: Limited Water Ingress Control
While the control of precipitation ingress is a performance requirement for exterior doors, side-hinged doors can comply with the referenced standard, AAMA/WDMA/CSA 101/I.S.2/A440, “NAFS – North American Fenestration Standard/Specification for Windows, Doors, and Skylights,” when tested at a pressure differential of 0 Pa (0.0 psf) or higher, but less than the minimum test pressure required for the indicated performance class and performance grade. Such doors are identified with a “Limited Water” (LW) rating on the product label.
There is no restriction on the use of side-hinged doors having a limited water designation when the tested water penetration resistance of such doors is equal to or greater than the specified Driving Rain Wind Pressure for the building location, as stated in Clause A.4.4 of CSA A440S1, “Canadian Supplement to AAMA/WDMA/CSA 101/I.S.2/A440-17, NAFS – North American Fenestration Standard/Specification for Windows, Doors, and Skylights.” When an LW door does not have sufficient water penetration resistance for the building location, Clause B.5.3.3 of CSA A440S1 states that these doors should only be used
and installed in a protected location, such as under a porch roof. Other protected locations would be behind a storm door, or a door separating conditioned space from unconditioned space, such as in cold storage rooms. The Exposure Nomograph in Annex A of CAN/CSA-A440.4, “Window, Door, and Skylight Installation,” provides an acceptable method to determine whether a door is considered protected, which depends on overhang ratio, and the terrain and moisture index of the building location. A door with an LW rating and a low exposure could provide acceptable water penetration resistance. However, given that the Exposure Nomograph in Annex A of CAN/CSA-A440.4 does not account for the intensity of wind driven rain, a door with an LW rating may not provide appropriate protection in some locations. In such cases, the risk of water penetration may remain the same as if the overhead protection were not provided.
A-9.7.5.2.(1) Forced Entry Via Glazing in Doors and Sidelights. There is no mandatory requirement that special glass be used in doors or sidelights, primarily because of cost. It is, however, a common method of forced entry to break glass in doors and sidelights to gain access to door hardware and unlock the door from the inside. Although insulated glass provides increased resistance over single glazing, the highest resistance is provided by laminated glass. Tempered glass, while stronger against static loads, is prone to shattering under high, concentrated impact loads.
Figure A-9.7.5.2.(1)
Combined laminated/annealed glazing
Laminated glass is more expensive than annealed glass and must be used in greater thicknesses.
Figure A-9.7.5.2.(1) shows an insulated sidelight made of one pane of laminated glass and one pane of annealed glass. This method reduces the cost premium that would result if both panes were laminated.
Consideration should be given to using laminated glazing in doors and accompanying sidelights regulated by Article 9.6.1.3., in windows located within 900 mm of locks in such doors, and in basement windows.
Underwriters’ Laboratories of Canada have produced ULC-S332, “Burglary Resisting Glazing Material,” which provides a test procedure to evaluate the resistance of glazing to attacks by thieves. While it is principally intended for plate glass show windows, it may be of value for residential purposes.
9-456 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
     1 x 6 mm laminated glass 1 x 6 mm annealed glass spacer
EG00315B
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B A-9.8.1.2.(2)
A-9.7.5.2.(2) Resistance of Doors To Forced Entry. This Sentence designates standard ASTM F 476, “Security of Swinging Door Assemblies,” as an alternative to compliance with the prescriptive requirements for doors and hardware. The annex to the standard provides four security classifications, with acceptance criteria, depending on the type of building and the crime rate of the area in which it is located. The NBC
only specifies Grade 10, the minimum level. The annex suggests the following guidelines be followed when selecting security levels for door assemblies:
Grade 10: This is the minimum security level and is quite adequate for single-family residential buildings located in stable, low-crime areas.
Grade 20: This is the low–medium security level and is designed to provide security for residential buildings located in average crime-rate areas and for apartments in both low and average crime-rate areas.
Grade 30: This is the medium–high security level and is designed to provide security for residential buildings located in higher than average crime-rate areas or for small commercial buildings in average or low crime-rate areas.
Grade 40: This is the high security level and is designed for small commercial buildings located in high crime-rate areas. This level could also be used for residential buildings having an exceptionally high incidence of semi-skilled burglary attacks.
All these grades satisfy the Code and can be considered for use where a higher level of security is desired or warranted.
A-9.7.5.2.(6) Door Fasteners. The purpose of the requirement for 30 mm screw penetration into solid wood is to prevent the door from being dislodged from the jamb due to impact forces. It is not the intent to prohibit other types of hinges or strikeplates that are specially designed to provide equal or greater protection.
A-9.7.5.2.(8) Hinged Doors. Methods of satisfying this Sentence include either using non-removable pin hinges or modifying standard hinges by screw fastening a metal pin in a screw hole in one half of the top and bottom hinges. When the door is closed, the projecting portion of the pin engages in the corresponding screw hole in the other half of the hinge and then, even if the hinge pin is taken out, the door cannot be removed.
A-9.7.5.3.(1) Resistance of Windows to Forced Entry. Although this Sentence only applies to windows within 2 m of adjacent ground level, certain house and site features, such as balconies or canopy roofs, allow for easy access to windows at higher elevations. Consideration should be given to specifying break-in resistant windows in such locations.
This Sentence does not apply to windows that do not serve the interior of the dwelling unit, such as windows to garages, sun rooms or greenhouses, provided connections between these spaces and the dwelling unit
are secure.
One method that is often used to improve the resistance of windows to forced entry is the installation of metal “security bars.” However, while many such installations are effective in increasing resistance to forced entry, they may also reduce or eliminate the usefulness of the window as an exit in case of fire or other emergency that prevents use of the normal building exits. Indeed, unless such devices are easily openable from the inside, their installation in some cases would contravene the requirements of Article 9.9.10.1., which requires every bedroom that does not have an exterior door to have at least one window that is large enough and easy enough to open that it can be used as an exit in case of emergency. Thus an acceptable security bar system should be easy to open from the inside while still providing increased resistance to entry from the outside.
A-9.8.1.2.(2) Storage in Garages. Attics in garages serving a single dwelling unit are sometimes used for storage purposes. Attics used for that purpose are not considered to be floor areas and need not conform to the requirements for floor areas, including the requirements for exits.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-457
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-9.8.3.1.
Division B
A-9.8.3.1. Permitted Stair Configurations.
Location/Use of Stairs
Stairs within dwelling units
Public stairs Exit stairs
Configuration of Stair Treads Winders
Permitted(3) Not permitted
Flight with a mix of Rectangular Treads and Tapered Treads
Permitted(4) Not permitted
Straight Flight with Rectangular Treads
Permitted(1)
(1) See Articles 9.8.4.1. and 9.8.4.2.
(2) See Articles 9.8.4.1. and 9.8.4.3.
(3) See Article 9.8.4.6.
(4) See Article 9.8.4.5.
(5) See Article 9.8.4.7.
(6) See Articles 3.4.6.9. and 9.8.4.3.
Curved Flight with Tapered Treads
Permitted(2) Permitted(6)
Spiral Stairs
Permitted(5) Not permitted
Notes to Table A-9.8.3.1.:
Table A-9.8.3.1. Permitted Stair Configurations
A-9.8.4. Tread Configurations. The Code distinguishes four principal types of stair treads : • rectangular treads, which are found in straight flights;
• tapered treads, which are found in curved flights;
• winders are described in Note A-9.8.4.6.; and
• spiral stairs, which are described in Note A-9.8.4.7. See Figure A-9.8.4.-A.
Figure A-9.8.4.-A Types of treads
Articles 9.8.4.1. to 9.8.4.8. specify various dimensional limits for steps. Figure A-9.8.4.-B illustrates the elements of a step and how these are to be measured.
9-458 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
                          30o 30o
 45o
 Rectangular treads Tapered treads Winders Spiral stairs
EG02055C
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B A-9.8.4.7.
Figure A-9.8.4.-B
Elements of steps and their measurement
A-9.8.4.6. Winders. Where a stair must turn, the safest method of incorporating the turn is to use a landing. Within a dwelling unit, however, where occupants are familiar with their environment, winders are an acceptable method of reducing the amount of floor area devoted to the stair and have not been shown to be more hazardous than a straight run of steps. Nevertheless, care is required to ensure that winders are as safe as possible. Experience has shown that 30° winders are the best compromise and require the least change in the natural gait of the stair user; 45° winders are also acceptable, as they are wider. The Code permits
only these two angles. Although it is normal Code practice to specify upper and lower limits, in this case it
is necessary to limit the winders to specific angles with no tolerance above or below these angles other than normal construction tolerances. One result of this requirement is that winder-type turns in stairs are limited to 30° or 45° (1 winder), 60° (2 winders), or 90° (2 or 3 winders). See Figure A-9.8.4.6.
Figure A-9.8.4.6. Winders
A-9.8.4.7. Spiral Stairs. A spiral stair is typically described as a stair with a circular plan having uniform treads that radiate from and wind around a common central post or supporting column.
In the context of the Code, the term “spiral stair” is used to describe any stair where:
(a) the plan of the treads forms part or all of a circle,
(b) theminimumstairwidthandtreaddeptharelessthanthoserequiredforcurvedstairs,and (c) themaximumriserheightisgreaterthanthatpermittedinallotherstairconfigurations.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Amended Page Division B 9-459
   run:
tread depth:
rise:
measured nosing to nosing
      measured nosing to nosing
  measured nosing to riser
  top of nosing with rounded or bevelled edge 6 mm to 14 mm
       EG00689A
       45 ̊ 45 ̊
 30 ̊ 30 ̊
30 ̊
         GG00168A
  © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-9.8.4.8. Division B
Figure A-9.8.4.7. Spiral stairs
A-9.8.4.8. Tread Nosings. A sloped or beveled edge on tread nosings will make the tread more visible through light modeling. The sloped portion of the nosing must not be too wide so as to reduce the risk of slipping of the foot. See Figure A-9.8.4.-B.
9-460 Division B Amended Page National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
                  Elevation view
Plan view
EG01396B
660 mm min.
660 mm min. between handrails located on both sides
190 mm min. deep tread at a
point 300 mm from the centre
line of the handrail at the narrower edge
                               300 mm
240 mm max.
1070 mm min.
  © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B A-9.8.7.2.
A-9.8.7.1.(2) Wider Stairs than Required. The intent of Sentence 9.8.7.1.(2) is that handrails be installed in relation to the required exit width only, regardless of the actual width of the stair and ramp. The required handrails are provided along the assumed natural path of travel to and from the building.
A-9.8.7.2. Continuity of Handrails. The guidance and support provided by handrails is particularly important at the beginning and end of ramps and flights of stairs and at changes in direction such as at landings and winders.
The intent of the requirement in Sentence (2) for handrails to be continuous throughout the length of the stair is that the handrail be continuous from the bottom riser to the top riser of the stair. (See Figure A-9.8.7.2.)
For stairs or ramps serving a single dwelling unit, the intent of the requirement for handrails to be continuous throughout the length of the flight is that the handrail be continuous from the bottom riser to the top riser of the flight. The required handrail may start back from the bottom riser only if it is supported by a newel post or volute installed on the bottom tread. (See Figure A-9.8.7.2.) With regard to stairs serving a single dwelling unit, the handrail may terminate at landings.
In the case of stairs within dwelling units that incorporate winders, the handrail should be configured so that it will in fact provide guidance and support to the stair user throughout the turn through the winder.
Figure A-9.8.7.2.
Continuity of handrails at the top and bottom of stairs and flights
Note to Figure A-9.8.7.2.:
(1) SeeArticle9.8.7.1.todeterminethenumberofhandrailsrequired.Somestairswillrequireonlyone,whilesomewillrequiretwoormore.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-461
   interruption permitted at door
interruption permitted at landing and at newel posts at changes in direction
top top
OR
top top
OR
Stair serving a single dwelling unit or a house with a secondary suite (including their common spaces): handrails continuous through length of flight
winders are part of a stair flight and are not considered a change in direction
See NBC Article 9.8.7.1. to determine the number of handrails required. Some stairs will require only one while some will require two or more.
interruption permitted at door and at newel posts at changes in direction
top
top
(a) Stair serving other than a single dwelling unit or a house with a secondary suite (including their common spaces): handrails continuous through length of stair
minimum extent of handrail where handrail is required
newel post
                                                                                          top
top
OR
OR
(b)
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-9.8.7.3.(1) Division B
A-9.8.7.3.(1) Termination of Handrails. Handrails are required to be installed so as not to obstruct pedestrian travel. To achieve this end, the rail should not extend so far into a hallway as to reduce the clear width of the hallway to less than the required width. Where the stair terminates in a room or other space, likely paths of travel through that room or space should be assessed to ensure that any projection of the handrail beyond the end of the stair will not interfere with pedestrian travel. As extensions of handrails beyond the first and last riser are not required in dwelling units (see Sentence 9.8.7.3.(2)) and as occupants of dwellings are generally familiar with their surroundings, the design of dwellings would not generally be affected by this requirement.
Handrails are also required to terminate in a manner that will not create a safety hazard to blind or visually impaired persons, children whose heads may be at the same height as the end of the rail, or persons wearing loose clothing or carrying items that might catch on the end of the rail. One approach to reducing potential hazards is returning the handrail to a wall, floor or post. Again, within dwelling units, where occupants are generally familiar with their surroundings, returning the handrail to a wall, floor or post may not be necessary. For example, where the handrail is fastened to a wall and does not project past the wall into a hallway or other space, a reasonable degree of safety is assumed to be provided; other alternatives may provide an equivalent level of protection.
A-9.8.7.3.(2) Handrail Extensions. As noted in Note A-9.8.7.2., the guidance and support provided by handrails is particularly important at the beginning and end of ramps and flights of stairs and at changes in direction. The extended handrail provides guidance and allows users to steady themselves upon entering or leaving a ramp or flight of stairs. Such extensions are particularly useful to visually-impaired persons, and persons with physical disabilities or who are encumbered in their use of the stairs or ramp.
A-9.8.7.4. Height of Handrails. Figure A-9.8.7.4. illustrates how to measure handrail height.
Figure A-9.8.7.4. Measuring handrail height
A-9.8.7.5.(2) Handrail Sections. Handrails are intended to provide guidance and support to stair users. To fulfil this intent, handrails must be “graspable.”
The graspable portion of a handrail should allow a person to comfortably and firmly grab hold by allowing their fingers and thumb to curl under part or all of the handrail. Where the configuration or dimensions of the handrail do not allow a person’s fingers and thumb to reach the bottom of it, recesses that are sufficiently wide
9-462 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
       handrail
   vertical measurement of height
straight line tangent to tread nosing
EG00322B
  © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B A-9.8.8.1.(4) and (5)
and deep to accommodate a person’s fingers and thumb must be provided on both sides of the handrail, at the bottom of the graspable portion, which must not have any sharp edges.
A-9.8.7.7. Attachment of Handrails. Handrails are intended to provide guidance and support to the stair user and to arrest falls. The loads on handrails may therefore be considerable. The attachment of handrails serving a single dwelling unit may be accepted on the basis of experience or structural design.
A-9.8.8.1. Required Guards. The requirements relating to guards stated in Part 9 are based on the premise that, wherever there is a difference in elevation of 600 mm or more between two floors, or between a floor or other surface to which access is provided for other than maintenance purposes and the next lower surface, the risk of injury in a fall from the higher surface is sufficient to warrant the installation of some kind of barrier to reduce the chances of such a fall. A wall along the edge of the higher surface will obviously prevent such a fall, provided the wall is sufficiently strong that a person cannot fall through it. Where there is no wall, a guard must be installed. Because guards clearly provide less protection than walls, additional requirements apply to guards to ensure that a minimum level of protection is provided. These relate to the characteristics described in Notes A-9.8.8.3., A-9.8.8.5.(1) and (2), A-9.8.8.5.(3) and A-9.8.8.6.(1).
Examples of such surfaces where the difference in elevation could exceed 600 mm and consequently where guards would be required include, but are not limited to, landings, porches, balconies, mezzanines, galleries, and raised walkways. Especially in exterior settings, surfaces adjacent to walking surfaces, stairs or ramps often are not parallel to the walking surface or the surface of the treads or ramps. Consequently, the walking surface, stair or ramp may need protection in some locations but not in others. (See Figure A-9.8.8.1.) In some instances, grades are artificially raised close to walking surfaces, stairs or ramps to avoid installing guards. This provides little or no protection for the users. That is why the requirements specify differences in elevation not only immediately adjacent to the construction but also for a distance of 1 200 mm from it by requiring that
the slope of the ground be within certain limits. (See Figure A-9.8.8.1.)
Figure A-9.8.8.1.
Required locations of guards
A-9.8.8.1.(4) and (5) Height of Window Sills above Floors or Ground. The primary intent of the requirement is to minimize the likelihood of small children falling significant heights from open windows.
Free-swinging or free-sliding means that a window that has been cracked open can be opened further by simply pushing on the openable part of the window. Care must be taken in selecting windows, as some with special operating hardware can still be opened further by simply pushing on the window.
Awning windows with scissor hardware, however, may not keep the window from swinging open once it is unlatched. Hopper windows would be affected only if an opening is created at the bottom as well as at the top of the window. The requirement will impact primarily on the use of sliding windows which do not incorporate devices in their construction that can be used to limit the openable area of the window.
The 100 mm opening limit is consistent with widths of openings that small children can fall through. It is only invoked, however, where the other dimension of the opening is more than 380 mm. Again, care must be taken in selecting a window. At some position, scissor hardware on an awning window may break up the open area such that there is no unobstructed opening with dimensions greater than 380 mm and 100 mm. At another position, however, though the window is not open much more, the hardware may not adequately break up the opening. The 900 mm height off the floor recognizes that furniture is often placed under windows and small children are often good climbers.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-463
   handrail required
guard required
slope is greater than 1 in 2
           600 mm
     1 200 mm
EG02058A
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-9.8.8.2. Division B
A-9.8.8.2. Loads on Guards. Guards must be constructed so as to be strong enough to protect persons from falling under normal use. Many guards installed in dwelling units or on exterior stairs serving one or two dwelling units have demonstrated acceptable performance over time. The loading described in the first row of Table 9.8.8.2. is intended to be consistent with the performance provided by these guards. Examples of guard construction presented in the “2012 Building Code Compendium, Volume 2, Supplementary Standard SB-7, Guards for Housing and Small Buildings” meet the criteria set in the National Building Code for loads on guards, including the more stringent requirements of Sentences 9.8.8.2.(1) and (2).
The load on guards within dwelling units, or on exterior guards serving not more than two dwelling units,
is to be imposed over an area of the guard such that, where standard balusters are used and installed at the maximum 100 mm spacing permitted for required guards, 3 balusters will be engaged. Where the balusters are wider, only two may be engaged unless they are spaced closer together. Where the guard is not required, and balusters are installed more than 100 mm apart, fewer balusters may be required to carry the imposed load.
A-9.8.8.3. Minimum Heights. Guard heights are generally based on the waist heights of average persons. Generally, lower heights are permitted in dwelling units because the occupants become familiar with the potential hazards, and situations which lead to pushing and jostling under crowded conditions are less likely to arise.
A-9.8.8.5.(1) and (2) Risk of Falling through Guards. The risk of falling through a guard is especially prevalent for children. Therefore the requirements are stringent for guards in all buildings except industrial buildings, where children are unlikely to be present except under strict supervision.
A-9.8.8.5.(3) Risk of Children Getting Their Head Stuck between Balusters. The requirements to prevent children falling through guards also serve to provide adequate protection against this problem. However, guards are often installed where they are not required by the Code; i.e., in places where the difference in elevation is less than 600 mm. In these cases, there is no need to require the openings between balusters to be less than 100 mm. However, there is a range of openings between 100 mm and 200 mm in which children can get their head stuck. Therefore, openings in this range are not permitted except in buildings of industrial occupancy, where children are unlikely to be present except under strict supervision.
A-9.8.8.6.(1) Configuration of Members, Attachments or Openings in Guards so as to not Facilitate Climbing. Some configurations of members, attachments or openings may be part of a guard design and still comply with Sentence 9.8.8.6.(1). Figures A-9.8.8.6.(1)-A to A-9.8.8.6.(1)-D present a few examples of designs that are considered to not facilitate climbing.
Protrusions that are greater than 450 mm apart horizontally and vertically are considered sufficiently far apart to reduce the likelihood that young children will be able to get a handhold or toehold on the protrusions and climb the guard.
Figure A-9.8.8.6.(1)-A
Example of minimum horizontal and vertical clearances between protrusions in guards
9-464 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
     > 450 mm
GG00176A
            > 450 mm
     140 mm
900 mm
    © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B A-9.8.8.6.(1)
Protrusions that present a horizontal offset of 15 mm or less are considered to not provide a sufficient foot purchase to facilitate climbing.
Figure A-9.8.8.6.(1)-B
Examples of maximum horizontal offset of protrusions in guards
A guard incorporating spaces that are not more than 45 mm wide by 20 mm high is considered to not facilitate climbing because the spaces are too small to provide a toehold.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-465
   ≤15 mm offset
EG00746A
≤15 mm offset
                        900 mm 140 mm
                                                                                                                                                  © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-9.8.8.6.(1) Division B
Figure A-9.8.8.6.(1)-C
Example of a guard with spaces created by the protruding elements that are not more than 45 mm wide and 20 mm high
Protrusions that present more than a 2-in-1 slope on the offset are considered to not facilitate climbing because such a slope is considered too steep to provide adequate footing.
Figure A-9.8.8.6.(1)-D
Example of guard protrusions with a slope greater than 2 in 1
9-466 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
   ≤ 45 mm
≤ 20 mm
GG00178A
                               900 mm 140 mm
                                                                                                                                                                     1 >2
GG00179A
          900 mm 140 mm
                                                                                                                                         © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B A-9.9.9.3.(1)
A-9.9.4.5.(1) Openings in Exterior Walls of Exits.
Figure A-9.9.4.5.(1)
Protection of openings in exterior walls of exits
A-9.9.8.4.(1) Independent and Remote Exits. Subsection 9.9.8. requires that some floor areas have more than one exit. The intent is to ensure that, if one exit is made untenable or inaccessible by a fire, or its exterior door is blocked by an exterior incident, one or more other exits will be available to permit the occupants to escape. However, if the exits are close together, all exits might be made untenable or inaccessible by the same fire. Sentence 9.9.8.4.(1) therefore requires at least two of the exits to be located remotely from each other.
This is not a problem in many buildings falling under Part 9. For instance, apartment buildings usually have exits located at either end of long corridors. However, in other types of buildings (e.g. dormitory and college residence buildings) this is often difficult to accomplish and problems arise in interpreting the meaning of the word “remote.” Article 3.4.2.3. is more specific, generally requiring the distance between exits to be one half the diagonal dimension of the floor area or at least 9 m. However, it is felt that such criteria would be too restrictive to impose on the design of all the smaller buildings which come under Part 9. Nevertheless, the exits should be placed as far apart as possible and the Part 3 criteria should be used as a target. Designs in which the exits are so close together that they will obviously both become contaminated in the event of a fire are not acceptable.
A-9.9.9.3.(1) Projecting Constructions. A projecting construction is considered to be a balcony when the occupant of a suite or a fire compartment is not required to pass in front of an opening of another suite or fire compartment in order to access an exit stair. For example, a projecting construction serving two dwelling units is considered to be a balcony if the exit stair is built between the two dwelling units and none of the openings of either dwelling unit opens directly onto the exit stair (a solid wall must face the exit stair).
A projecting construction is considered to be an exterior passageway when the occupant of a suite or a fire compartment is required to pass in front of an opening of another suite or fire compartment in order to access an exit stair. In that case, the exterior passageway must conform to Articles 9.9.4.2., 9.9.4.4., 9.9.9.2., 9.9.9.3., 9.10.8.8. and 9.10.17.4.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-467
        3 135 ̊ no protection
required
< 135 ̊
no protection required
• > 3 m horizontally
OR
• opening in building > 2 m above openings in the exit
   protection required
openings within 3 m horizontally and within 2 m above openings in the exit
< 135 ̊
protection required
< 135 ̊
      EC01221A
  © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-9.9.10.1.(1) Division B
A-9.9.10.1.(1) Escape Windows from Bedrooms. Sentence 9.9.10.1.(1) generally requires every bedroom in an unsprinklered suite to have at least one window or door opening to the outside that is large enough and easy enough to open so that it can be used as an exit in the event that a fire prevents use of the building’s normal exits. The minimum unobstructed opening specified for escape windows must be achievable using only the normal window operating procedure. The escape path must not go through nor open onto another room, floor or space.
Where a bedroom is located in an unsprinklered suite in a basement, an escape window or door must be located in the bedroom. It is not sufficient to rely on egress through other basement space to another escape window or door.
Window Height
The Article does not set a maximum sill height for escape windows; it is therefore possible to install a window or skylight that satisfies the requirements of the Article but defeats the Article’s intent by virtue of being so high that it cannot be reached for exit purposes. It is recommended that the sills of windows intended for use as emergency exits be not higher than 1.5 m above the floor. However, it is sometimes difficult to avoid having a higher sill: on skylights and windows in basement bedrooms for example. In these cases, it is recommended that access to the window be improved by some means such as built-in furniture installed below the window.
Figure A-9.9.10.1.(1)
Built-in furniture to improve access to a window
A-9.9.10.1.(2) Bedroom Window Opening Areas and Dimensions. Although the minimum opening dimensions required for height and width are 380 mm, a window opening that is 380 mm by 380 mm would not comply with the minimum area requirements. (See Figure A-9.9.10.1.(2).)
9-468 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
          EC00319B
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B A-9.9.10.1.(3)
Figure A-9.9.10.1.(2)
Window opening areas and dimensions
A-9.9.10.1.(3) Window Opening into a Window Well. Sentence 9.9.10.1.(3) specifies that there must be a minimum clearance of 760 mm in front of designated escape windows to allow persons to escape a basement bedroom in an emergency. This specified minimum clearance is consistent with the minimum required width for means of egress from a floor area (see Article 9.9.5.5.) and the minimum required width for path of travel on exit stairs (see Article 9.9.6.1.). It is considered the smallest acceptable clearance between the escape window and the facing wall of the window well that can accommodate persons trying to escape
a bedroom in an emergency given that they are not moving straight through the window but must move outward and up, and must have sufficient space to change body orientation.
Once this clearance is provided, no additional clearance is needed for windows with sliders, casements, or inward-opening awnings. However, for windows with outward-opening awnings, additional clearance is needed to provide the required 760 mm beyond the outer edge of the sash. (See Figure A-9.9.10.1.(3).)
Depending on the likelihood of snow accumulation in the window well, it could be difficult—if not impossible—to escape in an emergency. The window well should be designed to provide sufficient clear space for a person to get out the window and then out the well, taking into account potential snow accumulation.
Hopper windows (bottom-hinged operators) should not be used as escape windows in cases where the occupants would be required to climb over the glass.
Figure A-9.9.10.1.(3)
Windows providing a means of escape that open into a window well
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-469
   380 mm
(a)
(a) conforms to opening height and width requirements; does not conform to opening area requirements
380 mm
(b)
592 mm
(c)
(b) and (c) conform to height, width and opening area requirements
EG00318B
  Opening area 0.35 m2
   Opening area 0.35 m2
   Opening area 0.144 m2
380 mm
920 mm
592 mm
        760 mm
760 mm
           grade
grade
760 mm grade
          window well
 window well
 window well
basement
basement
basement
   EG00688A
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-9.10.1.4.(1) Division B
A-9.10.1.4.(1) Commercial Cooking Equipment. Part 6 refers to NFPA 96, “Ventilation Control
and Fire Protection of Commercial Cooking Operations,” which in turn references “Commercial Cooking Equipment.” However, the deciding factor as to whether or not NFPA 96 applies is the potential for production of grease-laden vapours and smoke, rather than the type of equipment used. While NFPA 96 does not apply
to domestic equipment for normal residential family use, it should apply to domestic equipment used in commercial, industrial, institutional and similar cooking applications where the potential for the production of smoke and grease-laden vapours exceeds that for normal residential family use.
A-9.10.3.1. Fire and Sound Resistance of Building Assemblies. Tables 9.10.3.1.-A and 9.10.3.1.-B have been developed from information gathered from tests. While a large number of the assemblies listed were tested, the fire-resistance and acoustical ratings for others were assigned on the basis of extrapolation
of information from tests of similar assemblies. Where there was enough confidence relative to the fire performance of an assembly, the fire-resistance ratings were assigned relative to the commonly used minimum ratings of 30 min, 45 min and 1 h, including a designation of “< 30 min” for assemblies that are known not to meet the minimum 30-minute rating. Where there was not enough comparative information on an assembly
to assign to it a rating with confidence, its value in the tables has been left blank (hyphen), indicating that its rating remains to be assessed through another means. Future work is planned to develop much of this additional information.
These tables are provided only for the convenience of Code users and do not limit the number of assemblies permitted to those in the tables. Assemblies not listed or not given a rating in these tables are equally acceptable provided their fire and sound resistance can be demonstrated to meet the above-noted requirements either
on the basis of tests referred to in Article 9.10.3.1. and Subsection 9.11.1. or by using the data in Appendix D, Fire-Performance Ratings. It should be noted, however, that Tables 9.10.3.1.-A and 9.10.3.1.-B are not based
on the same assumptions as those used in Appendix D. Assemblies in Tables 9.10.3.1.-A and 9.10.3.1.-B are described through their generic descriptions and variants and include details given in the notes to the tables. Assumptions for Appendix D include different construction details that must be followed rigorously for the calculated ratings to be expected. These are two different methods of choosing assemblies that meet required fire ratings.
Table 9.10.3.1.-B presents fire-resistance and acoustical ratings for floor, ceiling and roof assemblies. The fire-resistance ratings are appropriate for all assemblies conforming to the construction specifications given in Table 9.10.3.1.-B, including applicable table notes. Acoustical ratings for assemblies decrease with decreasing depth and decreasing separation of the structural members; the values listed for sound transmission class and impact insulation class are suitable for the minimum depth of structural members identified in the description, including applicable table notes, and for structural member spacing of 305 mm o.c., unless other values are explicitly listed for the assembly. Adjustments to the acoustical ratings to allow for the benefit of deeper or more widely spaced structural members are given in Table Notes (9) and (10).
Figure A-9.10.3.1.-A
Single layer butt joint details
Notes to Figure A-9.10.3.1.-A:
(1) Figure is for illustrative purposes only and is not to scale.
(2) The structural member can be any one of the types described in the Table.
(3) AdjacentgypsumboardbuttendsareattachedtoseparateresilientchannelsusingregularTypeSscrews,locatedaminimumof38mm
from the butt end.
9-470 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
    GG00160A
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
A-9.10.8.1.(2)
Figure A-9.10.3.1.-B
Double layer butt joint details
Notes to Figure A-9.10.3.1.-B:
(1) Figure is for illustrative purposes only and is not to scale.
(2) The structural member can be any one of the types described in the Table.
(3) BaselayerbuttendscanbeattachedtoasingleresilientchannelusingregularTypeSscrews.
(4) TypeGscrewsmeasuringaminimumof32mminlengthandlocatedaminimumof38mmfromthebuttendareusedtofastenthebutt
ends of the face layer to the base layer.
Figure A-9.10.3.1.-C
Example of steel furring channel
Note to Figure A-9.10.3.1.-C:
(1) Figure is for illustrative purposes only and is not to scale.
Figure A-9.10.3.1.-D
Example of resilient metal channel
Note to Figure A-9.10.3.1.-D:
(1) Figure is for illustrative purposes only and is not to scale.
A-9.10.4.1.(4) Mezzanines Not Considered as Storeys. Mezzanines increase the occupant load and the fire load of the storey of which they are part. To take the added occupant load into account for the purpose of evaluating other requirements that are dependent on this criteria, their floor area is added to the floor area of the storey.
A-9.10.8.1.(2) Light-frame Floor. For the purposes of Sentence 9.10.8.1.(2), light-frame means a structure consisting of wood elements of a size less than 38 mm × 184 mm (2 in. × 8 in.).
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-471
   GG00161A
 GG00172A
    GG00173A
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-9.10.8.3.(2) Division B
A-9.10.8.3.(2) Light-frame Construction. Light-frame walls, columns, arches and beams do not include heavy timber elements or masonry or concrete construction.
A-9.10.9.2.(3) Continuity of Smoke-Tight Barrier. The continuity of a smoke-tight barrier where it abuts another smoke-tight barrier, a floor, a ceiling or a wall assembly, is maintained by filling all openings at the juncture of the assemblies with a material that will ensure the integrity of the smoke-tight barrier at that location.
A-9.10.9.3.(2) Openings in Smoke-Tight Barriers to be Protected with Closures. Doors described in Sentence 9.10.9.3.(2) are deemed to provide a minimum 20 min fire-protection rating, which is considered an acceptable level of protection against the spread of fire in a house with a secondary suite. They are not required to be marked to identify conformance to CAN/ULC-S113, “Wood Core Doors Meeting the Performance Required by CAN/ULC-S104 for Twenty Minute Fire Rated Closure Assemblies,” as is the case for solid-core doors installed in fire separations.
A-9.10.9.6.(1) Penetration of Fire-Rated Assemblies by Service Equipment. This Sentence, together with Article 3.1.9.1., is intended to ensure that the integrity of fire-rated assemblies is maintained where they are penetrated by various types of service equipment.
For buildings regulated by the requirements in Part 3, fire stop materials used to seal openings around building services, such as pipes, ducts and electrical outlet boxes, must meet a minimum level of performance demonstrated by standard test criteria.
This is different from the approach in Part 9. Because of the type of construction normally used for buildings regulated by the requirements in Part 9, it is assumed that this requirement is satisfied by the use of generic fire stop materials such as mineral wool, gypsum plaster or Portland cement mortar.
A-9.10.9.16.(4) Separation between Dwelling Units and Storage or Repair Garages. The gas-tight barrier between a dwelling unit and an attached garage is intended to provide protection against the entry of carbon monoxide and gasoline fumes into the dwelling unit. Building assemblies incorporating an air barrier system will perform adequately with respect to gas tightness, provided all joints in the airtight material are sealed and reasonable care is exercised where the wall or ceiling is pierced by building services. Where a garage is open to the adjacent attic space above the dwelling unit it serves, a gas-tight barrier in the ceiling of the dwelling unit will also provide protection. Unit masonry walls forming the separation between a dwelling unit and an adjacent garage should be provided with two coats of sealer or plaster, or covered with gypsum board on the side of the wall exposed to the garage. All joints must be sealed to ensure continuity of the barrier. (See also Sentences 9.25.3.3.(3) to (8).)
A-9.10.12.4.(1) Protection of Overhang of Common Roof Space.
Figure A-9.10.12.4.(1)
Protection of overhang of common roof space
9-472 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
    2.5 m or less
area to be protected
EC00357B
1.2 m 1.2 m
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B A-9.10.14.5.(8)
A-9.10.12.4.(3) Protection at Soffits. The materials required by this Sentence to be used as protection for soffit spaces in certain locations do not necessarily have to be the finish materials. They can be installed either behind the finishes chosen for the soffits or in lieu of these.
A-9.10.13.2.(1) Wood Doors in Fire Separations. CAN/ULC-S113, “Wood Core Doors Meeting the Performance Required by CAN/ULC-S104 for Twenty Minute Fire Rated Closure Assemblies,” provides construction details to enable manufacturers to build wood core doors that will provide a 20 min fire-protection rating without the need for testing. The standard requires each door to be marked with
(1) the manufacturer’s or vendor’s name or identifying symbol, (2) the words “Fire Door,” and
(3) a reference to the fire-protection rating of 20 min.
A-9.10.14.5.(1) Minor Combustible Cladding Elements. Minor elements of cladding that is required to be noncombustible are permitted to be of combustible material, provided they are distributed over the building face and not concentrated in one area. Examples of minor combustible cladding elements include door and window trim and some decorative elements.
A-9.10.14.5.(6) Combustible Projections. The requirements of this Sentence concern projections such as balconies, walkways, platforms, canopies, ornamentations, eave projections and stairs.
A-9.10.14.5.(7) Permitted Projections. The definition of exposing building face provided in Sentence 1.4.1.2.(1) of Division A refers to “that part of the exterior wall of a building ... or, where a building is divided into fire compartments, the exterior wall of a fire compartment ...” Because the exposing building face is defined with respect to the exterior wall, projections from exposing building faces are elements that do not incorporate exterior walls. Depending on their specific configurations, examples of constructions that would normally be permitted by Sentence 9.10.14.5.(7) are balconies, platforms, canopies, eave projections and stairs. However, if a balcony, platform or stair is enclosed, its exterior wall would become part of an exposing building face and the construction could not be considered to be a projection from the exposing building face.
A-9.10.14.5.(8) Protection at Projections. Sentence 9.10.14.5.(7) permits certain projections from exposing building faces where the projections do not have exterior walls and thus clearly do not constitute part of the exposing building face. Sentence 9.10.14.5.(8) refers to other types of projections from the exposing building face, such as those for fireplaces and chimneys. It is recognized that these types present more vertical surface area compared to platforms, canopies and eave projections, and may be enclosed by constructions that are essentially the same as exterior walls. These constructions, however, do not enclose habitable space, are of limited width and may not extend a full storey in height. Consequently, Sentence (8) allows these projections beyond the exposing building face of buildings identified in Sentence (6), provided additional fire protection is installed on the projection.
Figure A-9.10.14.5.(8) illustrates projections that extend within 1.2 m of the property line where additional protection must be provided. Where a projection extends within 0.6 m of the property line, it must be protected to the same degree as an exposing building face that has a limiting distance of less than 0.6 m. Where a projection extends to less than 1.2 m but not less than 0.6 m of the property line, it must be protected to the same degree as an exposing building face that has a limiting distance of less than 1.2 m.
Protection is also required on the underside of the projection where the projection is more than 0.6 m above finished ground level, measured at the exposing building face.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-473
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-9.10.14.5.(11) and 9.10.15.5.(10)
Division B
Figure A-9.10.14.5.(8) Protection at projections
A-9.10.14.5.(11) and 9.10.15.5.(10)
Roof Soffit Projections.
Figure A-9.10.14.5.(11) and 9.10.15.5.(10)
Roof soffit projections
Notes to Figure A-9.10.14.5.(11) and 9.10.15.5.(10):
(1) See Sentences 3.2.3.6.(2), 9.10.14.5.(9) and 9.10.15.5.(8). (2) See Sentences 3.2.3.6.(3), 9.10.14.5.(10) and 9.10.15.5.(9). (3) See Sentences 3.2.3.6.(4), 9.10.14.5.(11) and 9.10.15.5.(10).
9-474 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
                     < 1.2 m
space enclosed by projection is not habitable space
< 1.2 m
space enclosed by projection is not habitable space
< 1.2 m
> 0.6 m
Section
space enclosed by projection is not habitable space
        Plan
Plan
normal cladding-sheathing assembly
} cladding-sheathing assemblies providing additional fire protection
EG00694D
            no roof soffits
LD d 0.45 m
a) Projecting roof soffit not allowed to be constructed(1)
t 0.45 m
LD > 0.45 m
b) Roof soffit must not project to less than 0.45 m from the property line(2)
LD = limiting distance
c) Roof soffit permitted to project up to property line, where it faces a street, lane or public thoroughfare, regardless of the limiting distance(3)
EG01393A
            property line
property line
property line
centre line of a street, lane or public thoroughfare
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B A-9.10.15.4.(2)
A-9.10.15.1.(1) Application of Subsection 9.10.15. The buildings to which Subsection 9.10.15. applies include:
• traditionalindividualdetachedhouseswithorwithoutasecondarysuite,
• semi-detachedhouses(doubles)whereeachhousemaycontainasecondarysuite,
• rowhouses,whereanyhousemaycontainasecondarysuite(seeSentence9.10.11.2.(1)),and • stacked dwelling units where one of them is a secondary suite.
Subsection 9.10.15. does not apply to stacked townhouses, stacked duplexes or stacked dwelling units that are not within a house with a secondary suite.
A-9.10.15.4.(2) Staggered or Skewed Exposing Building Faces of Houses. Studies at the National Fire Laboratory of the National Research Council have shown that, where an exposing building face is stepped back from the property line or is at an angle to the property line, it is possible to increase the percentage of glazing in those portions of the exposing building face further from the property line without increasing the amount of radiated energy that would reach the property line in the event of a fire in such a building. Figures A-9.10.15.4.(2)-A, A-9.10.15.4.(2)-B and A-9.10.15.4.(2)-C show how Sentences 9.10.15.4.(1) and (2), and 9.10.15.5.(2) and (3) can be applied to exposing building faces that are stepped back from or not parallel to the property line. The following procedure can be used to establish the maximum permitted area of glazed openings for such facades:
1. Calculatethetotalareaoftheexposingbuildingface,i.e.facadeofthefirecompartment,asdescribedin the definition of exposing building face.
2. Identify the portions into which the exposing building face is to be divided. It can be divided in any number of portions, not necessarily of equal size.
3. Measure the limiting distance for each portion. The limiting distance is measured along a line perpendicular to the wall surface from the point closest to the property line.
4. Establish the line in Table 9.10.15.4. from which the maximum permitted percentage area of glazed openings will be read. The selection of the line depends on the maximum area of exposing building face for the whole fire compartment, including all portions, as determined in Step 1.
5. On that line, read the maximum percentage area of glazed openings permitted in each portion of the exposing building face according to the limiting distance for that portion.
6. Calculatethemaximumareaofglazedopeningspermittedineachportion.Theareaiscalculatedfromthe percentage found applied to the area of that portion.
Table 9.10.15.4. is used to read the maximum area of glazed openings: this means that the opaque portion of doors does not have to be counted as for other types of buildings.
Note that this Note and the Figures do not describe or illustrate maximum permitted concentrated area or spacing of individual glazed openings, or limits on the location of dividing lines between portions of the exposing building face depending on the location of these openings with respect to interior rooms or spaces. See Sentences 9.10.15.2.(2) and 9.10.15.4.(2) to (4) for the applicable requirements.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-475
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-9.10.15.4.(2)
Division B
Figure A-9.10.15.4.(2)-A
Example of determination of criteria for the exposing building face of a staggered wall of a house
Notes to Figure A-9.10.15.4.(2)-A:
(1) See Sentence 9.10.15.5.(2).
(2) See Sentence 9.10.15.5.(3).
(3) See Table 9.10.15.4., Subclause 9.10.15.2.(1)(b)(iii) and Sentence 9.10.15.4.(2).
9-476 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
   Property Line
Exposing Building Face:
- Total length: 16.6 m - Height: 2.4 m
- Total area:
16.6 x 2.4 = 40 m2
45 min fire-resistance rating
Type of cladding Permitted % of
glazed openings(3) Permitted aggregate
area of glazed openings
limiting distance1 = 0.4 m
    limiting distance2 = 1.2 m
limiting distance3 = 2.0 m
  7.6 m
 3m 6m
  required(1)
not required(2)
not required(2)
noncombustible(1)
no limits(2)
no limits(2)
0%
7%
11%
        0
3 x 2.4 x 0.07 = 0.50 m2
6 x 2.4 x 0.11 = 1.58 m
2
EG00417D
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B A-9.10.15.4.(2)
Figure A-9.10.15.4.(2)-B
Example of determination of criteria for the exposing building face of a skewed wall of a house with some arbitrary division of the wall
Notes to Figure A-9.10.15.4.(2)-B:
(1) See Sentence 9.10.15.5.(2).
(2) See Sentence 9.10.15.5.(3).
(3) See Table 9.10.15.4., Subclause 9.10.15.2.(1)(b)(iii) and Sentence 9.10.15.4.(2).
(4) To simplify the calculations, choose the column for the lesser limiting distance nearest to the actual limiting distance. Interpolation for
limiting distance is also acceptable and may result in a slightly larger permitted area of glazed openings. Interpolation can only be used for limiting distances greater than 1.2 m.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-477
   Property Line
Exposing Building Face:
- Total length: 20.8 m - Height: 2.4 m
- Total area:
20.8 x 2.4 = 50 m2
45 min fire-resistance rating
Type of cladding
Permitted % of glazed openings(3)(4)
Permitted aggregate area of glazed openings
limiting distance1 = 0.5 m
limiting distance2 = 0.58 m
30°
limiting distance3 = 1.73 m
0
required (1)
0
not required (2)
5.0 x 2.4 x 0.09 = 1.08 m2
limiting distance4 = 4.62 m
not required (2)
7.0 x 2.4 x 0.28 = 4.70 m2
limiting distance5 = 8.66 m
not required (2)
3.0 x 2.4 x 1.0 = 7.2 m2
EG00378D
     3.8 m
required (1)
 noncombustible (1)
noncom- bustible (1)
no limits(2)
no limits (2)
no limits (2)
0%
0%
9%
28%
100%
       2.0 m 5.0 m
7.0 m
3.0 m
          © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-9.10.19.3.(1) Division B
Figure A-9.10.15.4.(2)-C
Example of determination of criteria for the exposing building face of a skewed wall of a house with a different arbitrary division of the wall
Notes to Figure A-9.10.15.4.(2)-C:
(1) See Sentence 9.10.15.5.(2).
(2) See Sentence 9.10.15.5.(3).
(3) See Table 9.10.15.4., Subclause 9.10.15.2.(1)(b)(iii) and Sentence 9.10.15.4.(2).
(4) To simplify the calculations, choose the column for the lesser limiting distance nearest to the actual limiting distance. Interpolation for
limiting distance is also acceptable and may result in a slightly larger permitted area of glazed openings. Interpolation can only be used for limiting distances greater than 1.2 m.
A-9.10.19.3.(1) Location of Smoke Alarms. There are two important points to bear in mind when considering where to locate smoke alarms in dwelling units:
• Themostfrequentpointoforiginforfiresindwellingunitsisthelivingarea.
• Themainconcerninlocatingsmokealarmsistoprovidewarningtopeopleasleepinbedrooms.
A smoke alarm located in the living area and wired so as to sound another smoke alarm located near the bedrooms is the ideal solution. However, it is difficult to define exactly what is meant by “living area.” It is
felt to be too stringent to require a smoke alarm in every part of a dwelling unit that could conceivably be considered a “living area” (living room, family room, study, etc.). Sentence 9.10.19.3.(1) addresses these issues by requiring at least one smoke alarm on every storey containing a sleeping room. Thus, in a dwelling unit complying with Sentence 9.10.19.3.(1), every living area will probably be located within a reasonable distance of a smoke alarm. Nevertheless, where a choice arises as to where on a storey to locate the required smoke alarm or alarms, one should be located as close as possible to a living area, provided the requirements related to proximity to bedrooms are also satisfied.
A smoke alarm is not required on each level in a split-level dwelling unit as each level does not count as a separate storey. Determine the number of storeys in a split-level dwelling unit and which levels are part of which storey as follows:
1. establish grade, which is the lowest of the average levels of finished ground adjoining each exterior wall of a building;
2. identifythefirststorey,whichistheuppermoststoreyhavingitsfloorlevelnotmorethan2mabovegrade; 3. identifythebasement,whichisthestoreyorstoreyslocatedbelowthefirststorey;
9-478 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
   Property Line
Exposing Building Face:
- Total length: 20.8 m - Height: 2.4 m
- Total area:
20.8 x 2.4 = 50 m2
45 min fire-resistance rating
Type of cladding Permitted % of
glazed openings(3)(4) Permitted aggregate
area of glazed openings
30°
limiting distance4 = 6.4 m
not required (2) n
limiting distance1 = 0.54 m
limiting distance2 = 0.62 m limiting distance3 = 1.2 m
3.8 m
limiting distance5 = 9.3 m
d(2)
0
required (2)
0
not required (2)
9.0 x 2.4 x 0.07 = 1.51 m2
5.0 x 2.4 x 0.57 = 6.84 m2
2.0 x 2.4 x 1.0
= 4.8 m2 EG00379D
          1.0 m 9.0 m 5.0 m 2.0 m
    required (1)
 ot require
noncom-
bustible(1) noncombustible(2) no limits
(2)
no limits(2)
n
 o limits(2)
0%
0%
7%
57%
 100%
            © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B A-9.10.22.
4. identify the second storey and, where applicable, the third storey.
As a minimum, one smoke alarm is required to be installed in each storey, preferably on the upper level of each one. As noted above, however, when the dwelling unit contains more than one sleeping area, an alarm must be installed to serve each area. Where the sleeping areas are on two levels of a single storey in a split-level dwelling unit, an additional smoke alarm must be installed so that both areas are protected. See Figure A-9.10.19.3.(1).
Figure A-9.10.19.3.(1)
Two-storey split-level building
Notes to Figure A-9.10.19.3.(1):
(1) Onesmokealarmrequiredforeachofthebasement,firststoreyandsecondstorey.
(2) Anadditionalsmokealarmisrequiredonthelowerlevelofthesecondstoreyoutsidethesleepingrooms.
A-9.10.19.5.(2) Interconnection of Smoke Alarms. Electrical regulations may require that separate power sources be provided for smoke alarms in the main dwelling unit and the secondary suite where the units have separate electrical services. In these situations, interconnection of smoke alarms between the units can be achieved through wireless communication.
A-9.10.20.3.(1) Fire Department Access Route Modification. In addition to other considerations taken into account in the planning of fire department access routes, special variations could be permitted for a house or residential building that is protected with an automatic sprinkler system. The sprinkler system must be designed in accordance with the appropriate NFPA standard and there must be assurance that water supply pressure and quantity are unlikely to fail. These considerations could apply to buildings that are located on the sides of hills and are not conveniently accessible by roads designed for firefighting equipment and also to infill housing units that are located behind other buildings on a given property.
A-9.10.22. Clearances from Gas, Propane and Electric Cooktops. CSA C22.1, “Canadian Electrical Code, Part I,” referenced in Article 9.34.1.1., and CSA B149.1, “Natural Gas and Propane Installation Code,” referenced in Article 9.10.22.1., address clearances directly above, in front of, behind and beside the appliance. Where side clearances are zero, the standards do not address clearances to building elements located both above the level of the cooktop elements or burners and to the side of the appliance. Through reference to the “Canadian Electrical Code, Part I” and the “Natural Gas and Propane Installation Code” and the requirements in Articles 9.10.22.2. and 9.10.22.3., the NBC addresses all clearances. Where clearances are addressed by the NBC and the “Canadian Electrical Code, Part I” or “Natural Gas and Propane Installation Code,” conformance with all relevant criteria is achieved by compliance with the most stringent criteria.
Installation of Microwave Ovens Over Cooktops
The minimum vertical clearances stated in Article 9.10.22.2. apply only to combustible framing, finishes and cabinets. They do not apply to microwave ovens installed over cooktops nor to range hoods. The “Canadian Electrical Code, Part I” requires that microwave ovens comply with CAN/CSA-C22.2 No. 150, “Microwave Ovens.” This standard includes tests to confirm that the appliance will not present a hazard when installed according to the manufacturer’s instructions.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Amended Page Division B 9-479
      (2)
Lower 2nd storey (with sleeping area)
 Lower 1st storey
  Lower basement
  (1)
Upper 2nd storey (with sleeping area)
(1)
Upper 1st storey
(1) Not more than 2 m
   Upper basement
Grade
= smoke alarm
EG00676A
    © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-9.11. Division B
Figure A-9.10.22.
Clearances from cooktops to walls and cabinetry
A-9.11. Sound Transmission.
Airborne Sound
Airborne sound is transmitted between adjoining spaces directly through the separating wall, floor and ceiling assemblies and via the junctions between these separating assemblies and the flanking assemblies.
The Sound Transmission Class (STC) rating describes the performance of the separating wall or floor/ceiling assembly, whereas the Apparent Sound Transmission Class (ASTC) takes into consideration the performance of the separating element as well as the flanking transmission paths. Therefore, from the occupants’ point of view, the best indicator of noise protection between two spaces is the ASTC rating.
As a key principle, it is important to follow a “whole-system” approach when designing or constructing assemblies that separate dwelling units because the overall sound performance of walls and floors is also influenced by fire protection measures and the structural design of the assemblies. Likewise, changes to the construction of assemblies to meet sound transmission requirements may have fire and structural implications. Another key principle is that enhancing the performance of the separating element does not automatically enhance the system’s performance.
For horizontally adjoining spaces, the separating assembly is the intervening wall and the pertinent flanking surfaces include those of the floor, ceiling, and side wall assemblies that have junctions with the
9-480 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
     vertical clearance 600 mm minimum - protected or noncombustible;
750 mm or more - unprotected
                            horizontal or
vertical clearance less than 450 mm - protected
level of elements or burners
microwave oven
horizontal or vertical clearance 450 mm or more unprotected
        appliance opening
 EG00380B
   © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B A-9.11.
separating wall assembly, normally at its four edges. For each of these junctions, there is a set of sound transmission paths. Figure A-9.11.-A illustrates the horizontal sound transmission paths at the junction of a separating wall with flanking floor assemblies.
Figure A-9.11.-A
Horizontal sound transmission paths at floor/wall junction
For vertically adjoining spaces, the separating assembly is the intervening floor/ceiling and the pertinent flanking surfaces include those of the side wall assemblies in the upper and lower rooms that have junctions with the separating floor/ceiling assembly at its edges, of which there are normally four. For each of
these junctions, there is a set of sound transmission paths. Figure A-9.11.-B illustrates the vertical sound transmission paths at the junction of a separating floor/ceiling assembly with two flanking wall assemblies.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-481
         separating wall assembly
  airborne sound source
direct path (STC)
flanking paths
apparent sound transmission class (ASTC)
            flanking floor/ceiling assembly
EG01379A
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-9.11. Division B
Figure A-9.11.-B
Vertical sound transmission paths at wall/floor junction
Control of Sound Leaks
The metrics used to characterize the sound transmission performance of assemblies separating dwelling units do not account for the adverse effects of air leaks in those assemblies, which can transfer sound. Sound leaks can occur where a wall meets another wall, the floor, or the ceiling. They can also occur where wall finishes are cut to allow the installation of equipment or services. The following are examples of measures for controlling sound leaks:
• avoid back-to-back electrical outlets or medicine cabinets;
• carefullysealcracksoropeningssostructuresareeffectivelyairtight;
• applysealantbelowtheplatesinstudwalls,betweenthebottomofgypsumboardandthestructure
behind, around all penetrations for services and, in general, wherever there is a crack, a hole or the
possibility of one developing;
• includesound-absorbingmaterialinsidethewallifnotalreadyrequired
The reduction of air leakage is also addressed to some extent by the smoke tightness requirements in the Code.
The calculation of and laboratory testing for STC and ASTC ratings are performed on intact assemblies having no penetrations or doors. When measuring ASTC ratings in the field, openings can be blocked with insulation and drywall.
To verify that the required acoustical performance is being achieved, a field test can be done at an early stage of construction. ASTM E 336, “Measurement of Airborne Sound Attenuation between Rooms in Buildings,” gives a complete measurement. A simpler and less expensive method is presented in ASTM E 597, “Determining a Single Number Rating of Airborne Sound Insulation for Use in Multi-Unit Building Specifications.” The rating derived from this test is usually within 2 points of the STC obtained from ASTM E 336. It is useful for verifying performance and finding problems during construction. Alterations can then be made prior to project completion.
9-482 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
       airborne sound source
   flanking side wall assemblies
         separating floor/ceiling assembly
direct path (STC)
flanking paths
 apparent sound transmission class (ASTC)
EG01380A
  © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B A-9.11.1.4.
Impact Noise
Section 9.11. has no requirements for the control of impact noise transmission. However, footsteps and other impacts can cause severe annoyance in multifamily residences. Builders concerned about quality and reducing occupant complaints will ensure that floors are designed to minimize impact transmission. A recommended criterion is that bare floors (tested without a carpet) should achieve an impact insulation class (IIC) of 55. Some lightweight floors that satisfy this requirement may still elicit complaints about low frequency impact noise transmission. Adding carpet to a floor will always increase the IIC rating but
will not necessarily reduce low frequency noise transmission. Good footstep noise rejection requires
fairly heavy floor slabs or floating floors. Impact noise requirements are being considered for inclusion
in future editions of the NBC.
The most frequently used test methods for impact noise are ASTM E 492, “Laboratory Measurement of Impact Sound Transmission Through Floor-Ceiling Assemblies Using the Tapping Machine,” and ASTM E 1007, “Field Measurement of Tapping Machine Impact Sound Transmission Through Floor-Ceiling Assemblies and Associated Support Structures.”
Machinery Noise
Elevators, garbage chutes, plumbing, fans, and heat pumps are common sources of noise in buildings. To reduce annoyance from these, they should be placed as far as possible from sensitive areas. Vibrating parts should be isolated from the building structure using resilient materials such as neoprene or rubber.
A-9.11.1.1.(2) Sound Transmission in Houses with a Secondary Suite. Controlling sound transmission between dwelling units is important to the occupants’ health and well-being. Although this may be difficult to achieve in an existing building, it is nevertheless necessary that a minimum level of sound transmission protection be provided between the dwelling units in a house with a secondary suite. A somewhat reduced level of performance is acceptable in the case of secondary suites because the occupants of the house containing a secondary suite are only affected by the sound of one other unit and, in many cases, it is the owner of the house who will decide on the desired level of protection.
A-9.11.1.3.(2)(b) Control of Airborne Noise in Buildings. Tables 9.10.3.1.-A and 9.10.3.1.-B present separating assemblies that comply with Section 9.11. However, selecting an appropriate separating assembly is only one part of the solution for reducing airborne sound transmission between adjoining spaces: to fully address the sound performance of the whole system, flanking assemblies must be connected to the separating assembly in accordance with Article 9.11.1.4.
A-9.11.1.4. Adjoining Constructions. Tables A-9.11.1.4.-A to A-9.11.1.4.-D present generic options for the design and construction of junctions between separating and flanking assemblies. Constructing according to these options is likely to meet or exceed an ASTC rating of 47. Other designs may be equally acceptable if their sound resistance can be demonstrated to meet the minimum ASTC rating or better on the basis of tests referred to in Article 9.11.1.2., or if they comply with Subsection 5.8.1. However, some caution should be applied when designing solutions that go beyond the options provided in these Tables: for example, adding more material to a wall could negatively impact its sound performance or have no effect at all.
Table A-9.11.1.4.-A presents compliance options for the construction of separating wall assemblies with flanking floor, ceiling and wall assemblies in horizontally adjoining spaces.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-483
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-9.11.1.4.
Division B
Table A-9.11.1.4.-A
Options for the Design and Construction of Junctions and Flanking Surfaces Between Separating Wall Assemblies in Horizontally Adjoining Spaces for Compliance with Clause 9.11.1.1.(1)(b)
Type of Separating Wall Assembly with STC ≥ 50 from Table 9.10.3.1.-A
W4, W5, W6 (single stud) W8, W9, W10, W11, W12 (staggered studs)
Options for Design and Construction of Junctions and Flanking Surfaces(1) to Address Horizontal Sound Transmission Paths
9-484 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Bottom Junction (between separating wall and flanking floors)
Top Junction (between separating wall and flanking ceiling)
Side Junctions (between separating wall and flanking walls)
Example Showing Side View of Bottom and Top Junctions
ceiling
W5 separating wall
additional material layer over subfloor plus finished flooring with mass per area > 8 kg/m2
Example Showing Plan View of Side Junctions
W5 separating wall
EG01399A
flanking wall EG02084A
        • foradditionalmateriallayer and finished flooring, see Table 9.11.1.4.
• subfloor on both sides
of wall is plywood, OSB, waferboard (15.5 mm thick) or tongue and groove lumber (≥ 17 mm thick)
• floorisframedwithwood joists, wood I-joists or wood trusses spaced ≥ 400
mm o.c., with or without absorptive material(2) in cavities
• floor joists or trusses
are oriented parallel
to separating wall (non-loadbearing case)
or perpendicular to separating wall but are
not continuous across junction (loadbearing case)
 • ceilingisframedwithwood joists, wood I-joists, or wood trusses, with or without absorptive material(2) in cavities
• ceilingjoistsortrusses are oriented perpendicular to separating wall but are not continuous across junction (loadbearing case) or parallel to junction (non-loadbearing case)
• gypsumboardceilingis fastened directly to bottom of ceiling framing or on resilient metal channels(3)
 • gypsumboardonflanking walls ends or is cut at separating wall and
is fastened directly to framing or on resilient metal channels(3)
• flankingwallisframedwith single row of wood studs, staggered studs on a single 38 mm x 140 mm plate, or 2 rows of 38 mm x 89 mm wood studs on separate 38 mm x 89 mm plates, with or without absorptive material(2) in cavities
• flanking wall framing is structurally connected
to separating wall and terminates where it
butts against framing
of separating wall or is continuous across junction
                                                                     © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
A-9.11.1.4.
Type of Separating Wall Assembly with STC ≥ 50 from Table 9.10.3.1.-A
Table A-9.11.1.4.-A (Continued)
Options for Design and Construction of Junctions and Flanking Surfaces(1) to Address Horizontal Sound Transmission Paths
Bottom Junction (between separating wall and flanking floors)
Top Junction (between separating wall and flanking ceiling)
Side Junctions (between separating wall and flanking walls)
Example Showing Plan View of Side Junctions
W12 separating wall
Example Showing Side View of Bottom and Top Junctions
ceiling
W12 separating wall
additional material layer over subfloor plus finished flooring with mass per area > 8 kg/m2
EG02087A
flanking wall EG02086A
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Division B 9-485
                                                                  W13, W14, W15
 • foradditionalmateriallayer and finished flooring, see Table 9.11.1.4.
• subfloor on both sides
of wall is plywood, OSB, waferboard (15.5 mm thick) or tongue and groove lumber (≥ 17 mm thick)
• floorisframedwithwood joists, wood I-joists or wood trusses spaced ≥ 400
mm o.c., with or without absorptive material(2) in cavities
• floor joists or trusses
are oriented parallel
to separating wall (non-loadbearing case)
or perpendicular to separating wall but are
not continuous across junction (loadbearing case)
• near leaf of separating wall is supported on “designated” joist
 • woodjoists,woodI-joistsor wood trusses are oriented perpendicular or parallel
to separating wall, with
or without absorptive
material(2) in cavities
• joistframingatjunctionis supported on near leaf of
separating wall
• gypsum board ceiling
panels end at wall framing and are fastened directly to bottom of ceiling framing or on resilient metal channels(3)
 • flanking wall framing is fastened to adjacent leaf of separating wall
• flankingwallisframedwith single row of wood studs, staggered studs on a single 38 mm x 140 mm plate, or 2 rows of 38 mm x 89 mm wood studs on separate 38 mm x 89 mm plates, with or without absorptive material(2) in cavities
• gypsumboardpanelson flanking walls ends or is cut at framing of separating wall and is fastened on resilient metal channels(3) or directly to framing of flanking wall if that framing and any sheathing are
not continuous across the junction
  © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-9.11.1.4.
Division B
Type of Separating Wall Assembly with STC ≥ 50 from Table 9.10.3.1.-A
Table A-9.11.1.4.-A (Continued)
Options for Design and Construction of Junctions and Flanking Surfaces(1) to Address Horizontal Sound Transmission Paths
9-486 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Bottom Junction (between separating wall and flanking floors)
Top Junction (between separating wall and flanking ceiling)
Side Junctions (between separating wall and flanking walls)
Example Showing Plan View of Side Junctions
W13 separating wall
Example Showing Side View of Bottom and Top Junctions
ceiling
W13 separating wall
additional material layer over subfloor plus finished flooring with mass per area > 8 kg/m2
EG01366A
flanking wall
EG01365A
                                                          © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
A-9.11.1.4.
Type of Separating Wall Assembly with STC ≥ 50 from Table 9.10.3.1.-A
Table A-9.11.1.4.-A (Continued)
Options for Design and Construction of Junctions and Flanking Surfaces(1) to Address Horizontal Sound Transmission Paths
S1 to S15
Bottom Junction (between separating wall and flanking floors)
Top Junction (between separating wall and flanking ceiling)
Side Junctions (between separating wall and flanking walls)
Example Showing Side View of Bottom and Top Junctions
concrete floor
S14 separating wall
concrete floor
EG01368A
Example Showing Plan View of Side Junctions
S14 separating wall
flanking wall
EG01369A
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Division B 9-487
      • F1concretefloorassembly from Table 9.10.3.1.-B with mass per area not less than 300 kg/m2 (e.g. normal-weight concrete with average thickness of 130 mm)
• withorwithoutanadditional material layer or finished flooring
 • F1concretefloorassembly from Table 9.10.3.1.-B with mass per area not less than 300 kg/m2 (e.g. normal-weight concrete with average thickness of 130 mm)
• withorwithoutgypsum board ceiling suspended below concrete floor
 • flanking wall framing is structurally connected
to separating wall and terminates where it
butts against framing
of separating wall or is continuous across junction
• gypsumboardonflanking walls ends or is cut at separating wall and
is fastened directly to framing or on resilient metal channels(3)
• flankingwallconsistsof steel framing (loadbearing or non-loadbearing steel studs) or concrete blocks with mass per area not less than 200 kg/m2 (e.g. normal-weight hollow core concrete block units(4) with a gypsum board lining supported on framing providing a cavity not less than 50 mm deep)
• withorwithoutabsorptive material(2) in cavities behind gypsum board of flanking walls
                                         © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-9.11.1.4.
Division B
Type of Separating Wall Assembly with STC ≥ 50 from Table 9.10.3.1.-A
B1 to B10
Table A-9.11.1.4.-A (Continued)
Options for Design and Construction of Junctions and Flanking Surfaces(1) to Address Horizontal Sound Transmission Paths
Notes to Table A-9.11.1.4.-A:
Bottom Junction (between separating wall and flanking floors)
Top Junction (between separating wall and flanking ceiling)
Side Junctions (between separating wall and flanking walls)
Examples Showing Plan View of Side Junctions
B3 separating wall
Example Showing Side View of Bottom and Top Junctions
concrete floor
B3 separating wall
concrete floor
EG01370A
flanking wall
EG01371A
(1) See also Table A-9.11.1.4.-B.
(2) Sound absorptive material is porous (closed-cell foam was not tested) and includes fibre processed from rock, slag, glass or cellulose fibre with a
maximum density of 32 kg/m3. See Notes (5) and (8) of Table 9.10.3.1.-A and Note (5) of Table 9.10.3.1.-B for additional information.
(3) Resilient metal channels are formed from steel having a maximum thickness of 0.46 mm (25 gauge) with slits or holes in the single “leg” between
the faces fastened to the framing and to the gypsum board (see Figure A-9.10.3.1.-D). ASTM C 754, “Installation of Steel Framing Members to
Receive Screw-Attached Gypsum Panel Products,” describes the installation of resilient metal channels.
(4) Normal-weight concrete block units conforming to CSA A165.1, “Concrete Block Masonry Units,” have aggregate with a density not less than
2 000 kg/m3; 190 mm hollow core units are 53% solid, providing a wall mass per area over 200 kg/m2; 140 mm hollow core units are 75% solid, providing a wall mass per area over 200 kg/m2.
Table A-9.11.1.4.-B presents options for improving the sound performance of separating wall systems beyond that achieved by implementing the options presented in Table A-9.11.1.4.-A. The suggested performance improvement options are listed in order of approximate acoustic priority and are interdependent, i.e., if options at the top of the list are not implemented, then options at the bottom of the list will have much lesser effect.
9-488 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
      • sameoptionsasstated above for walls S1 to S15
 • sameoptionsasstated above for walls S1 to S15
• junction at top of concrete block assembly is loadbearing or non-loadbearing resilient joint
 • sameoptionsasstated above for walls S1 to S15
                                                           © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
A-9.11.1.4.
Table A-9.11.1.4.-B
Options for the Construction of a Separating Wall System to Further Improve the Sound Insulation Performance Achieved with the Options in Table A-9.11.1.4.-A
Type of Separating Wall
Assembly with STC ≥ 50 Performance Improvement Options for Junctions Between Separating Walls and Flanking Floor/Ceiling Assemblies
from Table 9.10.3.1.-A
Notes to Table A-9.11.1.4.-B:
(1) Resilient metal channels are formed from steel having a maximum thickness of 0.46 mm (25 gauge) with slits or holes in the single “leg” between the faces fastened to the framing and to the gypsum board (see Figure A-9.10.3.1.-D). ASTM C 754, “Installation of Steel Framing Members to Receive Screw-Attached Gypsum Panel Products,” describes the installation of resilient metal channels.
(2) Sound absorptive material is porous (closed-cell foam was not tested) and includes fibre processed from rock, slag, glass or cellulose fibre with a maximum density of 32 kg/m3. See Notes (5) and (8) of Table 9.10.3.1.-A and Note (5) of Table 9.10.3.1.-B for additional information.
Table A-9.11.1.4.-C presents compliance options for the construction of separating floor/ceiling assemblies with flanking wall assemblies in vertically adjoining spaces.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-489
     W4, W5, W6, W8, W9, W10, W11, W12
 • Increasemassperareaofadditionalmateriallayerandfinishedflooringoversubfloor(e.g.concreteorgypsum concrete topping)
• ChooseseparatingwallassemblywithhigherSTCrating
• Orientfloorandceilingjoistsparalleltoseparatingwall(non-loadbearingcase)
• Addresilientlayerunderadditionalmateriallayeroversubfloororbetweenadditionalmateriallayerandfinished
flooring
• Supportgypsumboardpanelsofceilingonresilientmetalchannels(1)
• Supportgypsumboardpanelsofflankingwallsonresilientmetalchannels(1)
  W13, W14, W15
 • Ifseismicorotherstructuralrequirementspermit,chooseafireblockdetailatfloor/walljunctioninaccordance with Subsection 9.10.16. that does not provide a rigid connection between the two rows of framing of the separating wall (e.g. subfloor not continuous across junction and semi-rigid fibre insulation board filling the gap in accordance with Article 9.10.16.3.). In this case, an additional material layer would not be necessary. Also, choose separating wall assembly with higher STC rating (e.g. more absorptive material(2) in cavities and/or more gypsum board).
• Ifhavingarigidstructuralconnectionatthefloor/walljunction(suchassubfloorcontinuousacrossthejunction) is required for seismic or other structural reasons, obtain a higher ASTC rating as follows:
• Increasecombinedmassperareaofadditionalmateriallayeroversubfloorandfinishedflooring(e.g. concrete or gypsum concrete topping)
• ChooseseparatingwallassemblywithhigherSTCrating(e.g.moreabsorptivematerial(2)and/ormore gypsum board)
• Supportgypsumboardpanelsofceilingonresilientmetalchannels(1)
• Supportgypsumboardpanelsofflankingwallsonresilientmetalchannels(1)
• Addresilientlayerunderadditionalmateriallayeroversubfloororbetweenadditionalmateriallayerand
finished flooring
  S1 to S15
 • ChooseseparatingwallassemblywithhigherSTCrating
• Increasethicknessofconcretefloorslaband/oraddmateriallayerandfinishedflooringoversubfloor
• Addgypsumboardceilingonframingsupportedunderthefloorabove,withcavitynotlessthan100mmdeep
• Addresilientlayerunderadditionalmateriallayeroversubfloororbetweenadditionalmateriallayerandfinished
flooring
• Supportgypsumboardpanelsofflankingwallsonresilientmetalchannels(1)ifsteelstudsareloadbearingtype
  B1 to B10
 • ChooseseparatingwallassemblywithhigherSTCrating
• Addgypsumboardceilingsupportedbelowconcretefloorwithcavitynotlessthan100mmdeepandsound
absorptive material(2) in cavity
• Increasethicknessofconcretefloorslaband/oraddmateriallayerandfinishedflooringoversubfloor
• Addresilientlayerunderadditionalmateriallayeroversubfloororbetweenadditionalmateriallayerandfinished
flooring and increase mass per area of additional material layer and finished flooring (e.g. floating concrete
or gypsum concrete topping)
• Supportgypsumboardpanelsofflankingwallsonresilientmetalchannels(1)ifsteelstudsareloadbearingtype
      © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-9.11.1.4.
Division B
Table A-9.11.1.4.-C
Options for the Design and Construction of Junctions and Flanking Surfaces Between Separating Floor/Ceiling Assemblies in Vertically Adjoining Spaces for Compliance with Clause 9.11.1.1.(1)(b)
Type of Separating Floor/Ceiling Assembly with STC ≥ 50 from Table 9.10.3.1.-B
F1 (with or without gypsum board ceiling)
Options for Design and Construction of Junctions and Flanking Surfaces(1) to Address Vertical Sound Transmission Paths
Junctions with Flanking Steel-Framed Walls Junctions with Flanking Concrete Walls
F8 to F38
9-490 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
S14 wall F1 separating floor
B3 wall
F1 separating floor
Examples Showing Side View of Junctions
EG01372A
EG01373A
Junctions with Flanking Loadbearing or Non-Loadbearing Walls
    • floorendsatflankingwallassembly (T-junction) or extends beyond it (cross-junction)
• steel framing of flanking walls is loadbearing or non-loadbearing, with a single row of steel studs, staggered studs, or 2 rows of studs, with studs spaced not less than 400 mm o.c., with or without absorptive material(2) in cavities
• flankingwallstructureisfastenedto separating concrete floor but is not continuous across junction
• gypsumboardonflankingwallsis not continuous across junction and is fastened directly to wall framing or on resilient metal channels(3)• floorendsatflankingwallassembly (T-junction) or extends beyond it (cross-junction)
• onewytheofconcreteblockswithmass per area not less than 200 kg/m2 (e.g. normal-weight hollow core concrete block units(4))
• loadbearing(solid)ornon-loadbearing (resilient) junction between top of flanking concrete block wall and floor structure
• gypsumboardliningissupportedon wood or steel framing providing a cavity not less than 50 mm deep, with or without absorptive material(2) in cavities
• gypsumboardonflankingwallsis not continuous across junction and is fastened directly to wall framing or on resilient metal channels(3)               • woodstudsofflankingwallare38mmx89mmor38mmx140mmandspaced400 mm or 600 mm o.c.
• flankingwallframingconsistsofsinglerowofwoodstuds,staggeredstudsonasingle
38 mm x 140 mm plate, or 2 rows of 38 mm x 89 mm wood studs on separate 38 mm x 89 mm plates, with or without absorptive material(2) in wall cavities
• gypsumboardonflankingwallsendsoriscutnearfloorframingandisfasteneddirectly to wall framing or supported on resilient metal channels(3)© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2
Division B
A-9.11.1.4.
Type of Separating Floor/Ceiling Assembly with STC ≥ 50 from Table 9.10.3.1.-B
Table A-9.11.1.4.-C (Continued)
Options for Design and Construction of Junctions and Flanking Surfaces(1) to Address Vertical Sound Transmission Paths
Example Showing Side View of Junctions in Flanking Loadbearing Wall
F8d separating floor
Example Showing Side View of Junctions in Flanking Non-Loadbearing Wall
F8d separating floor
EG01374A
(1) See also Table A-9.11.1.4.-D.
(2) Sound absorptive material is porous (closed-cell foam was not tested) and includes fibre processed from rock, slag, glass or cellulose fibre with a
maximum density of 32 kg/m3. See Notes (5) and (8) of Table 9.10.3.1.-A and Note (5) of Table 9.10.3.1.-B for additional information.
(3) Resilient metal channels are formed from steel having a maximum thickness of 0.46 mm (25 gauge) with slits or holes in the single “leg” between
the faces fastened to the framing and to the gypsum board (see Figure A-9.10.3.1.-D). ASTM C 754, “Installation of Steel Framing Members to
Receive Screw-Attached Gypsum Panel Products,” describes the installation of resilient metal channels.
(4) Normal-weight concrete block units conforming to CSA A165.1, “Concrete Block Masonry Units,” have aggregate with a density not less than
2 000 kg/m3; 190 mm hollow core units are 53% solid, providing a wall mass per area over 200 kg/m2; 140 mm hollow core units are 75% solid, providing a wall mass per area over 200 kg/m2.
Table A-9.11.1.4.-D presents options for improving the sound performance of separating floor/ceiling assemblies beyond that achieved by implementing the options presented in Table A-9.11.1.4.-C. The suggested performance improvement options are listed in order of approximate acoustic priority and are interdependent, i.e., if options at the top of the list are not implemented, then options at the bottom of the list will have much lesser effect.
Notes to Table A-9.11.1.4.-C:
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-491
EG01375A
                       © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022
 A-Table 9.11.1.4.
Division B
Table A-9.11.1.4.-D
Options for the Construction of a Separating Floor System to Further Improve the Sound Insulation Performance Achieved with the Options in Table A-9.11.1.4.C.
Notes to Table A-9.11.1.4.-D:
(1) Sound absorptive material is porous (closed-cell foam was not tested) and includes fibre processed from rock, slag, glass or cellulose fibre with a maximum density of 32 kg/m3. See Notes (5) and (8) of Table 9.10.3.1.-A and Note (5) of Table 9.10.3.1.-B for additional information.
(2) Resilient metal channels are formed from steel having a maximum thickness of 0.46 mm (25 gauge) with slits or holes in the single “leg” between the faces fastened to the framing and to the gypsum board (see Figure A-9.10.3.1.-D). ASTM C 754, “Installation of Steel Framing Members to Receive Screw-Attached Gypsum Panel Products,” describes the installation of resilient metal channels.
A-Table 9.11.1.4. Floor Treatments. The sound insulation performance of lightweight framed floors can be improved by adding floor treatments, i.e., additional layers of material over the subfloor (e.g. concrete topping, OSB or plywood) and finished flooring or coverings (e.g., carpet, engineered wood). Table A-Table 9.11.1.4. presents the mass per area values based on thickness and density of a number of generic floor treatment materials (the values for proprietary products may be different; consult the manufacturer’s current data sheets for their products’ values).
Table A-Table 9.11.1.4.
Mass per Area of Floor Treatment Materials
Floor Treatment Material Thickness, mm Density, kg/m3
Mass per Area, kg/m2
2.3–5.0 5.6–6.6 7.0–8.1 5.9–8.4
8.1–14.5 8.9–15.9 8.6–10.7 10.4–12.8 11.5–13.1
16.0–23.7
80.6–119.0 46.1–46.7
Medium-density fibreboard (MDF) Plywood – generic softwood Ceramic tile
2.9–6.1 12.5–13.3 15.5–16.3 8.4
790–810
450–500 700–1 000
Particleboard
Medium-density fibreboard (MDF)
Oriented strandboard (OSB)
Plywood – generic softwood
11.3–19.2 13.9–21.1 14.3–15.8 17.3–18.8 25.5
710–755
640–755
600–680
450–500
Medium-density fibreboard (MDF)
Concrete Gypsum concrete
25.0–32.1 640–740
Materials Typically Having a Mass per Area Greater Than 32 kg/m2
40.0–50.0 2 015–2 380 25.0 1 840–1 870
9-492 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Materials Typically Having a Mass per Area Less Than 8 kg/m2
Materials Typically Having a Mass per Area Greater Than 8 kg/m2 but Less Than 16 kg/m2
Materials Typically Having a Mass per Area Greater Than 16 kg/m2 but Less Than 32 kg/m2
   Type of Sep-
arating Floor Assembly with STC ≥ 50 from
Table 9.10.3.1.-B
 Performance Improvement Options for Junctions Between Separating Floors and Flanking Wall Assemblies
  F1 (with or without gypsum board ceiling)
 • Addheavieradditionalmateriallayeroversubfloorand/orresilientlayerunderadditionalmateriallayerorbetween additional material layer and finished flooring
• Addgypsumboardceilingsupportedatleast100mmbelowconcretefloorwithminimalstructuralconnection(e.g.ceiling framing supported resiliently) and sound absorptive material(1) in cavity
• Supportgypsumboardofflankingwallsoflowerroomonresilientmetalchannels(2)(ifframedwithloadbearingstuds)
  F8 to F38
 • Addheavieradditionalmateriallayeroversubfloorand/orresilientlayerunderadditionalmateriallayerorbetween additional material layer and finished flooring
• Addmore/heaviergypsumboardtoceilingandincreasespacingofresilientmetalchannels(2)to600mmo.c.
• Supportgypsumboardofflankingloadbearingwallsoflowerroomonresilientmetalchannels(2)
• Supportgypsumboardonflankingnon-loadbearingwallsoflowerroomonresilientmetalchannels(2)
                      © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B A-9.13.4.
A-Table 9.12.2.2. Minimum Depths of Foundations. The requirements for clay soils or soils not clearly defined are intended to apply to those soils that are subject to significant volume changes with changes in moisture content.
A-9.12.3.3.(1) Deleterious Material in Backfill. The deleterious debris referred to in this provision includes, but is not limited to:
• organic material and other material subject to decomposition and compaction, which could have an adverse effect on grading around the building,
• materialsthatwilloff-gasandhavethepotentialtoposeahealthhazard,and
• materialsthatareincompatiblewithmaterialsusedinthefoundations,footings,drainagematerialsor
components, or other elements of the building whose required performance would be adversely affected.
A-9.13.2.1.(2) Required Dampproofing Protection. The use of a dampproofing membrane under floors-on-ground protects against moisture, protects concrete against sulphate soil or underlying granular materials and protects the occupants against the effects of soil gas such as radon.
Certain granular materials, including hornfels, may produce a significant quantity of sulphates likely to migrate by capillarity towards the underside of floors-on-ground and cause sulphatization of concrete. The following methods are recommended to protect concrete against sulphate-laden moisture:
(a) the use of sulphate-resistant concrete (see Article 9.3.1.3.),
(b) the use of a vapour barrier (see Sentence 9.25.3.2.(2)),
(c) the use of clean coarse granular materials limiting capillarity effects and preventing the migration of sulphates (see Article 9.16.2.1.).
A-9.13.2.5. Protection of Interior Finishes against Moisture. Excess water from cast-in-place concrete and ground moisture tends to migrate toward interior spaces, particularly in the spring and summer. Where moisture-susceptible materials, such as finishes or wood members, are in contact with the foundation wall, the moisture needs to be controlled by installing a moisture barrier on the interior surface of the foundation wall that extends from the underside of the interior finish up the face of the wall to a point just above the level of the ground outside.
The reason the moisture barrier on the interior surface of the foundation wall must be stopped near ground level is to allow any moisture that finds its way into the finished wall cavity from the interior space (through leaks in the air or vapour barrier) to diffuse to the exterior. If the vapour permeance of dampproofing membranes or coatings exceeds 170 ng/(Pa·s·m2), such moisture barriers may be carried full height; if
their vapour permeance is less than that, this moisture risks being trapped on the interior surface of the moisture barriers. The permeance limit corresponds to the lower limit for breather-type membranes, such as asphalt-impregnated sheathing paper.
Some insulation products can also be used to protect interior finishes from the effects of moisture. They have shown acceptable performance when applied over the entire foundation wall because, in this case, they also provide vapour barrier and moisture barrier functions and possibly also the air barrier function. Where a single product provides all these functions, there is no risk of trapping moisture between two functional barriers with low water vapour permeance.
A-9.13.4. Soil Gas Control. Outdoor air entering a dwelling through above-grade leaks in the building envelope normally improves the indoor air quality in the dwelling by reducing the concentrations of pollutants and water vapour. It is only undesirable because it cannot be controlled. On the other hand, air entering a dwelling through below-grade leaks in the envelope may increase the water vapour content of the indoor air and may also bring in a number of pollutants picked up from the soil. This mixture of air, water vapour and pollutants is sometimes referred to as “soil gas.” One pollutant often found in soil gas is radon.
Sentence 9.13.4.2.(1), which requires the installation of an air barrier system, addresses the protection from all soil gases, while the remainder of Article 9.13.4.2. along with Article 9.13.4.3., which require the provision of the means to depressurize the space between the air barrier and the ground, specifically address the capability to mitigate high radon concentrations in the future, should this become necessary.
Radon is a colourless, odourless, radioactive gas that occurs naturally as a result of the decay of radium. It is found to varying degrees as a component of soil gas in all regions of Canada and is known to enter dwelling units by infiltration into basements and crawl spaces. The presence of radon in sufficient quantity can lead to an increased risk of lung cancer.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-493
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-9.13.4.2.(3) Division B
The potential for high levels of radon infiltration is very difficult to evaluate prior to construction and thus a radon problem may only become apparent once the building is completed and occupied. Therefore various sections of Part 9 require the application of certain radon exclusion measures in all dwellings. These measures are
• low in cost,
• difficult to retrofit, and
• desirable for other benefits they provide.
The principal method of resisting the ingress of all soil gases, a resistance which is required for all buildings (see Sentence 9.13.4.2.(1)), is to seal the interface between the soil and the occupied space, so far as is reasonably practicable. Sections 9.18. and 9.25. contain requirements for air and soil gas barriers in assemblies in contact with ground, including those in crawl spaces. Providing control joints to reduce cracking of foundation walls and airtight covers for sump pits (see Section 9.14.) are other measures that can help achieve this objective. The requirements provided in Subsection 9.25.3. are explained in Notes A-9.25.3.4. and 9.25.3.6. and A-9.25.3.6.(2) and (3).
The principal method of excluding radon is to ensure that the pressure difference across the ground/space interface is positive (i.e., towards the outside) so that the inward flow of radon through any remaining leaks will be minimized. The requirements provided in Article 9.13.4.3. are explained in Note A-9.13.4.3.
A-9.13.4.2.(3) Exception for Buildings Occupied for a Few Hours a Day. The criterion used by Health Canada to establish the guideline for acceptable radon concentration is the time that occupants spend inside buildings. Health Canada recommends installing a means for the future removal of radon in buildings that are occupied by persons for more than 4 hours per day. Sentence 9.13.4.2.(3) may therefore not apply to buildings or portions of buildings that are intended to be occupied for less than 4 hours a day. Addressing a radon problem in such buildings in the future, should that become necessary, can also be achieved by providing a means for increased ventilation at times when these buildings are occupied.
A-9.13.4.3.
Providing Performance Criteria for the Depressurization of the Space Between the Air Barrier and the Ground
Article 9.13.4.3. contains two sets of requirements: Sentence (2) describes the criteria for subfloor depressurization systems using performance-oriented language, while Sentence (3) describes one particular acceptable solution using more prescriptive language.
In some cases, subfloor depressurization requires a solution other than the one described in Sentence (3), for example, where compactable fill is installed under slab-on-grade construction.
Completion of a Subfloor Depressurization System
The completion of a subfloor depressurization system may be necessary to reduce the radon concentration to a level below the guideline specified by Health Canada.
Further information on protection from radon ingress can be found in the following Health Canada publications:
• “Radon: A Guide for Canadian Homeowners” (CMHC/HC), and
• “GuideforRadonMeasurementsinResidentialDwellings(Homes).”
A-9.13.4.3.(2)(b) and (3)(b)(i) Effective Depressurization. To allow effective depressurization of the space between the air barrier and the ground, the extraction opening (the pipe) should not be blocked and should be arranged such that air can be extracted from the entire space between the air barrier and the ground. This will ensure that the extraction system can maintain negative pressure underneath the entire floor (or in heated crawl spaces underneath the air barrier). The arrangement and location of the extraction system inlet(s) may have design implications where the footing layout separates part of the space underneath the floor.
9-494 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B A-9.14.2.1.(1)
Figure A-9.13.4.3.(2)(b) and (3)(b)(i)
Acceptable configurations for the extraction opening in a depressurization system
A-9.14.2.1.(1) Foundation Drainage – Ochre Deposition. Ochre deposition is associated with soil characteristics and groundwater conditions. Microorganisms, which are generally found in water-saturated soil, extract oxygen from elements such as iron, reducing it to ferrous ions. Once the iron has been reduced and solubilized, it migrates through the soil to foundation drains and can block them. The following document describes drainage systems that reduce the risk of ochre deposition in the drainage systems of new buildings and how to install them: BNQ 3661-500, “Dépôts d’ocre dans les systèmes de drainage des bâtiments – Partie I : Évaluation du risque pour la construction de nouveaux bâtiments et diagnostic pour des bâtiments existants et Partie II : Méthodes d'installation proposées pour nouveaux bâtiments et bâtiments existants.”
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-495
   centre of floor slab
 Radon
     100 mm
granular material
Radon
exhaust pipe
  centre of floor slab
            air/soil gas barrier
centre of floor slab
Radon
100 mm
100 mm
        EG00692C
  © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-9.14.2.1.(2)(a) Division B
A-9.14.2.1.(2)(a) Insulation Applied to the Exterior of Foundation Walls. In addition to the prevention of heat loss, some types of mineral fibre insulation, such as rigid glass fibre, are installed on the exterior of basement walls for the purpose of moisture control. This is sometimes used instead of crushed rock as a drainage layer between the basement wall and the surrounding soil in order to facilitate the drainage of soil moisture. Water drained by this drainage layer must be carried away from the foundation by the footing drains or the granular drainage layer in order to prevent it from developing hydro-static pressure against the wall. Provision must be made to permit the drainage of this water either by extending the insulation or crushed rock to the drain or by the installation of granular material connecting the two. The installation of such drainage layer does not eliminate the need for normal waterproofing or dampproofing of walls as specified in Section 9.13.
A-9.15.1.1. Application of Footing and Foundation Requirements to Decks and Similar Constructions. Because decks, balconies, verandas and similar platforms support occupancies, they are, by definition, considered as buildings or parts of buildings. Consequently, the requirements in Section 9.15. regarding footings and foundations apply to these constructions.
A-9.15.1.1.(1)(c) and 9.20.1.1.(1)(b) Flat Insulating Concrete Form Walls. Insulating concrete form (ICF) walls are concrete walls that are cast into polystyrene forms, which remain in place after the concrete has cured. Flat ICF walls are solid ICF walls where the concrete is of uniform thickness over the height and width of the wall.
A-9.15.2.4.(1) Preserved Wood Foundations – Design Assumptions. Tabular data and figures in CSA S406, “Permanent Wood Foundations for Housing and Small Buildings,” are based upon the general principles provided in CSA O86, “Engineering Design in Wood,” with the following assumptions:
• soil bearing capacity: 75 kPa or more,
• clear spans for floors: 5 000 mm or less,
• floorloadings:1.9kPaforfirstfloorandsuspendedfloor,and1.4kPaforsecondstoreyfloor, • foundationwallheights:2400mmforslabfloor,3000mmforsuspendedwoodfloor,
• topofgranularlayertotopofsuspendedwoodfloor:600mm,
• lateralloadfromsoilpressure:equivalenttofluidpressureof4.7kPapermetreofdepth,
• ground snow load: 3 kPa,
• basic snow load coefficient: 0.6,
• roof loads are carried to the exterior wall,
• dead loads:
roof
floor
wall (with siding)
wall (with masonry veneer) foundation wall
partitions
0.50 kPa 0.47 kPa 0.32 kPa 1.94 kPa 0.27 kPa 0.20 kPa
Footing Sizes. The footing sizes in Table 9.15.3.4. are based on typical construction consisting of a roof, not more than 3 storeys, and centre bearing walls or beams. For this reason,
Clause 9.15.3.3.(1)(b) stipulates a maximum supported joist span of 4.9 m.
It has become common to use flat wood trusses or wood I-joists to span greater distances in floors of small buildings. Where these spans exceed 4.9 m, minimum footing sizes may be based on the following method:
(a) Determineforeachstoreythespanofjoiststhatwillbesupportedonagivenfooting.Sumtheselengths (sum1).
(b) Determinetheproductofthenumberofstoreystimes4.9m(sum2).
(c) Determine the ratio of sum1 to sum2.
(d) MultiplythisratiobytheminimumfootingsizesinTable9.15.3.4.togettherequiredminimumfooting size.
A-9.15.3.4.(2)
9-496 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B A-9.20.5.1.(1)
Example: A 2-storey house is built using wood I-joists spanning 6 m.
(a) sum1 =6+6=12m
(b) sum2 =4.9x2=9.8m
(c) ratio sum1/sum2 = 12/9.8 = 1.22
(d) required minimum footing size = 1.22 x 350 mm (minimum footing size provided in Table 9.15.3.4.) = 427 mm.
A-9.17.2.2.(2) Lateral Support of Columns. Because the NBC does not provide prescriptive criteria to describe the minimum required lateral support, constructions are limited to those that have demonstrated effective performance over time and those that are designed according to Part 4. Verandas on early 20th century homes provide one example of constructions whose floor and roof are typically tied to the rest of the building to provide effective lateral support. Large decks set on tall columns, however, are likely to require additional lateral support even where they are connected to the building on one side.
A-9.17.3.4. Design of Steel Columns. The permitted live floor loads of 2.4 kPa and the spans described for steel beams, wood beams and floor joists are such that the load on columns could exceed 36 kN, the maximum allowable load on columns prescribed in CAN/CGSB-7.2, “Adjustable Steel Columns.” In the context of Part 9, loads on columns are calculated from the supported area times the live load per unit area, using the supported length of joists and beams. The supported length is half of the joist spans on each side of the beam and half the beam span on each side of the column.
Dead load is not included based on the assumption that the maximum live load will not be applied over the whole floor. Designs according to Part 4 must consider all applied loads.
A-9.18.7.1.(4) Protection of Ground Cover in Warm Air Plenums. The purpose of the requirement is to protect combustible ground cover from smouldering cigarette butts that may drop through air registers. The protective material should extend beyond the opening of the register and have up-turned edges, as a butt may be deflected sideways as it falls.
A-9.19.1.1.(1) Venting of Attic or Roof Spaces. Controlling the flow of moisture by air leakage and vapour diffusion into attic or roof spaces is necessary to limit moisture-induced deterioration. Given that imperfections normally exist in the vapour barriers and air barrier systems, recent research indicates that venting of attic or roof spaces is generally still required. The exception provided in Article 9.19.1.1. recognizes that some specialized ceiling-roof assemblies, such as those used in some factory-built buildings, have, over time, demonstrated that their construction is sufficiently tight to prevent excessive moisture accumulation.
In these cases, ventilation would not be required.
A-9.20.1.2. Seismic Information. Information on spectral response acceleration values for various locations can be found in Appendix C.
A-9.20.5.1.(1) Masonry Support. Masonry veneer must be supported on a stable structure in order to avoid cracking of the masonry due to differential movement relative to parts of the support. Wood framing
is not normally used as a support for the weight of masonry veneer because of its shrinkage characteristics. Where the weight of masonry veneer is supported on a wood structure, as is the case for the preserved wood foundations referred to in Sentence 9.20.5.1.(1) for example, measures must be taken to ensure that any differential movement that may be harmful to the performance of masonry is minimized or accommodated. The general principle stated in Article 9.4.1.1., however, makes it possible to support the weight of masonry veneer on wood framing, provided that engineering design principles prescribed in Part 4 are followed to ensure that the rigidity of the support is compatible with the stiffness of the masonry being supported and that differential movements between the support and masonry are accommodated.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-497
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-9.20.8.5.(1)
Division B
A-9.20.8.5.(1) Projection of Masonry Beyond Supporting Members.
Figure A-9.20.8.5.(1)
Maximum projection of masonry veneer beyond its support
A-9.20.12.2.(2) Corbelling of Masonry Foundation Walls.
Figure A-9.20.12.2.(2) Maximum corbel dimensions
9-498 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
             solid masonry units
 projection of masonry veneer ≤ 1/3 of its thickness
EG00573E
                                           tfoundation
inner face of cavity wall
tbrick
h
≤ h/2 and ≤ tbrick/3
≤ tfoundation/3
EG00450B
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B A-9.21.5.1.(1)
A-9.20.13.9.(3) Dampproofing of Masonry Walls. The reason for installing a sheathing membrane behind masonry walls is to prevent rainwater from reaching the interior finish if it should leak past the masonry. The sheathing membrane intercepts the rainwater and leads it to the bottom of the wall where the flashing directs it to the exterior via weep holes. If the insulation is a type that effectively resists the penetration of water, and is installed so that water will not collect behind it, then there is no need for a sheathing membrane. If water that runs down between the masonry and the insulation is able to leak out at the joints in the insulation, such insulation will not act as a substitute for a sheathing membrane. If water cannot leak through the joints in the insulation but collects in cavities between the masonry and insulation, subsequent freezing could damage the wall. Where a sheathing membrane is not used, the adhesive or mortar should therefore be applied to form
a continuous bond between the masonry and the insulation. If this is not practicable because of an irregular masonry surface, then a sheathing membrane is necessary.
A-9.21.3.6.(2) Metal Chimney Liners. Under the provisions of Article 1.2.1.1. of Division A, masonry chimneys with metal liners may be permitted to serve solid-fuel-burning appliances if tests show that such liners will provide an equivalent level of safety.
A-9.21.4.4.(1) Location of Chimney Top.
Figure A-9.21.4.4.(1)
Vertical and horizontal distances from chimney top to roof
A-9.21.4.5.(2) Lateral Support for Chimneys. Where a chimney is fastened to the house framing with metal anchors, in accordance with CSA A370, “Connectors for Masonry,” it is considered to have adequate lateral support. The portion of the chimney stack above the roof is considered as free standing and may require additional lateral support.
A-9.21.5.1.(1) Clearance from Combustible Materials. For purposes of this Sentence, an exterior chimney can be considered to be one which has at least one surface exposed to the outside atmosphere or unheated space over the majority of its height. All other chimneys should be considered to be interior.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-499
    900 mm min.
   900 mm min.
  less than 3 m 600 mm min.
   600 mm min. 3m
   EG00457B
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-9.23.1.1. Division B
A-9.23.1.1. Constructions Other than Light Wood-Frame Constructions. The prescriptive requirements in Section 9.23. apply only to standard light wood-frame construction. Other constructions, such as post, beam and plank construction, plank frame wall construction, and log construction must be designed in accordance with Part 4.
A-9.23.1.1.(1) Application of Section 9.23. In previous editions of the Code, Sentence 9.23.1.1.(1) referred to “conventional” wood-frame construction. Over time, conventions have changed and the application of Part 9 has expanded.
The prescriptive requirements provided in Section 9.23. still focus on lumber beams, joists, studs and rafters as the main structural elements of “wood-frame construction.” The requirements recognize—and have recognized for some time—that walls and floors may be supported by components made of material other than lumber; for example, by foundations described in Section 9.15. or by steel beams described in Article 9.23.4.3. These constructions still fall within the general category of wood-frame construction.
With more recent innovations, alternative structural components are being incorporated into wood-frame buildings. Wood I-joists, for example, are very common. Where these components are used in lieu of lumber, the requirements in Section 9.23. that specifically apply to lumber joists do not apply to these components: for example, limits on spans and acceptable locations for notches and holes. However, requirements regarding the fastening of floor sheathing to floor joists still apply, and the use of wood I-joists does not affect the requirements for wall or roof framing.
Similarly, if steel floor joists are used in lieu of lumber joists, the requirements regarding wall or roof framing are not affected.
Conversely, Sentence 9.23.1.1.(1) precludes the installation of precast concrete floors on wood-frame walls since these are not “generally comprised of ... small repetitive structural members ... spaced not more than 600 mm o.c.”
Thus, the reference to “engineered components” in Sentence 9.23.1.1.(1) is intended to indicate that, where an engineered product is used in lieu of lumber for one part of the building, this does not preclude the application of the remainder of Section 9.23. to the structure, provided the limits to application with respect to cladding, sheathing or bracing, spacing of framing members, supported loads and maximum spans are respected.
A-9.23.3.1.(2) Alternative Nail Sizes. Where power nails or nails with smaller diameters than that required by Table 9.23.3.4. are used to connect framing, the following equations can be used to determine the required spacing or required number of nails.
The maximum spacing can be reduced using the following equation:
where
Sadj = adjusted nail spacing ≥ 20 x nail diameter,
Stable = nail spacing required by Table 9.23.3.4.,
Dred = smaller nail diameter than that required by Table 9.23.3.1., and
Dtable = nail diameter required by Table 9.23.3.1.
The number of nails can be increased using the following equation:
where
Nadj = adjusted number of nails,
Ntable = number of nails required by Table 9.23.3.4., Dtable = nail diameter required by Table 9.23.3.1., and
Dred = smaller nail diameter than required by Table 9.23.3.1.
Note that nails should be spaced sufficiently far apart—preferably no less than 55 mm apart—to avoid splitting of framing lumber.
9-500 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B A-9.23.4.2.
A-9.23.3.1.(3) Standard for Screws. The requirement that wood screws conform to ASME B18.6.1, “Wood Screws (Inch Series),” is not intended to preclude the use of Robertson head screws. The requirement is intended to specify the mechanical properties of the fastener, not to restrict the means of driving the fastener.
A-9.23.3.3.(1) Prevention of Splitting. Figure A-9.23.3.3.(1) illustrates the intent of the phrase “staggering the nails in the direction of the grain.”
Figure A-9.23.3.3.(1) Staggered nailing
A-Table 9.23.3.5.-B Alternative Nail Sizes. Where power nails or nails having a different diameter than the diameters listed in CSA B111, “Wire Nails, Spikes and Staples,” are used to connect the edges of the wall sheathing to the wall framing of wood-sheathed braced wall panels, the maximum spacing should be as shown in Table A-Table 9.23.3.5.-B.
Element
Plywood, OSB or waferboard
Notes to Table A-Table 9.23.3.5.-B:
(1) For alternative nail lengths of 63 mm or longer.
Table A-Table 9.23.3.5.-B Alternative Nail Diameters and Spacing
Nail Diameter, mm(1)
Maximum Spacing of Nails Along Edges of Wall Sheathing, mm o.c.
A-9.23.4.2. Span Tables for Wood Joists, Rafters and Beams. In these span tables the term “rafter” refers to a sloping wood framing member which supports the roof sheathing and encloses an attic space but does not support a ceiling. The term “roof joist” refers to a horizontal or sloping wood framing member that supports the roof sheathing and the ceiling finish but does not enclose an attic space.
Where rafters or roof joists are intended for use in a locality having a higher specified roof snow load than shown in the tables, the maximum member spacing may be calculated as the product of the member spacing and specified snow load shown in the span tables divided by the specified snow load for the locality being considered. The following examples show how this principle can be applied:
(a) For a 3.5 kPa specified snow load, use spans for 2.5 kPa and 600 mm o.c. spacing but space members 400 mm o.c.
(b) For a 4.0 kPa specified snow load, use spans for 2.0 kPa and 600 mm o.c. spacing but space members 300 mm o.c.
The maximum spans in the span tables are measured from the inside face or edge of support to the inside face or edge of support.
In the case of sloping roof framing members, the spans are expressed in terms of the horizontal distance between supports rather than the length of the sloping member. The snow loads are also expressed in terms of the horizontal projection of the sloping roof. Spans for odd size lumber may be estimated by straight line interpolation in the tables.
These span tables may be used where members support a uniform live load only. Where the members are required to be designed to support a concentrated load, they must be designed in conformance with Subsection 4.3.1.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-501
2.19-2.52 75 2.53-2.82 100 2.83-3.09 125
> 3.09 150
   direction of grain
   staggered nailing
EG01218A
       © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-9.23.4.2.(2) Division B
Supported joist length in Span Tables 9.23.4.2.-H, 9.23.4.2.-I and 9.23.4.2.-J means half the sum of the joist spans on both sides of the beam. For supported joist lengths between those shown in the tables, straight line interpolation may be used in determining the maximum beam span.
Span Tables 9.23.4.2.-A to 9.23.12.3.-D cover only the most common configurations. Especially in the area of floors, a wide variety of other configurations is possible: glued subfloors, concrete toppings, machine stress rated lumber, etc. The Canadian Wood Council publishes “The Span Book,” a compilation of span tables covering many of these alternative configurations. Although these tables have not been subject to the formal committee review process, the Canadian Wood Council generates, for the CCBFC, all of the Code’s span tables for wood structural components; thus Code users can be confident that the alternative span tables in “The Span Book” are consistent with the span tables in the Code and with relevant Code requirements.
Spans for wood joists, rafters and beams which fall outside the scope of these tables, including those for U.S. species and individual species not marketed in the commercial species combinations described in the span tables, can be calculated in conformance with CSA O86, “Engineering Design in Wood.”
A-9.23.4.2.(2) Numerical Method to Establish Vibration-Controlled Spans for Wood-Frame Floors. In addition to the normal strength and deflection analyses, the calculations on which the floor joist span tables are based include a method of ensuring that the spans are not so long that floor vibrations could lead to occupants perceiving the floors as too “bouncy” or “springy.” Limiting deflection under the normal uniformly distributed loads to 1/360 of the span does not provide this assurance.
Normally, vibration analysis requires detailed dynamic modeling. However, the calculations for the span tables use the following simplified static analysis method of estimating vibration-acceptable spans:
• Thespanwhichwillresultina2mmdeflectionofasinglejoistsupportinga1kNconcentratedmidpoint load is calculated.
• Thisspanismultipliedbyafactor,K,todeterminethe“vibration-controlled”spanfortheentirefloor system. If this span is less than the strength- or deflection-controlled span under uniformly distributed load, the vibration-controlled span becomes the maximum span.
• The K factor is determined from the following relationship:
where
A,B =constants,thevaluesofwhicharedeterminedfromTablesA-9.23.4.2.(2)-AorA-9.23.4.2.(2)-B,
G = constant, the value of which is determined from Table A-9.23.4.2.(2)-C,
Si = span which results in a 2 mm deflection of the joist in question under a 1 kN concentrated
midpoint load,
S184 = span which results in a 2 mm deflection of a 38 x 184 mm joist of same species and grade as the
joist in question under a 1 kN concentrated midpoint load.
For a given joist species and grade, the value of K shall not be greater than K3, the value which results in a vibration-controlled span of exactly 3 m. This means that for vibration-controlled spans 3 m or less, K always equals K3, and for vibration-controlled spans greater than 3 m, K is as calculated.
Note that, for a sawn lumber joist, the ratio Si/S184 is equivalent to its depth (mm) divided by 184.
Due to rounding differences, the method, as presented here, might produce results slightly different from those produced by the computer program used to generate the span tables.
9-502 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
A-9.23.4.2.(2)
Subfloor Thickness, mm
15.5 19.0
With Strapping(1) Joist Spacing, mm 400
0.25 0.30
0.33
With Bridging Joist Spacing, mm 400
With Strapping and Bridging Joist Spacing, mm
Notes to Table A-9.23.4.2.(2)-A:
(1)
Gypsum board attached directly to joists can be considered equivalent to strapping.
Subfloor Thickness, mm
15.5 19.0
Without Bridging Joist Spacing, mm
300 400
0.39 0.33 0.42 0.36
600
0.24 0.27
300
0.49 0.51
With Bridging Joist Spacing, mm 400
Constant A 0.44 0.46 Constant B 0.37
600
0.38 0.40
300
0.58 0.62
400 600
0.51 0.41 0.56 0.47
0.35
Notes to Table A-9.23.4.2.(2)-B:
Table A-9.23.4.2.(2)-A
Constants A and B for Calculating Vibration-Controlled Floor Joist Spans – General Cases Forming Part of Note A-9.23.4.2.(2)
300
0.30 0.36
600
0.20 0.24
300
600
0.25 0.30
300
0.42 0.50
400 600
0.35 0.28 0.42 0.33
0.41
Joists with Ceiling Attached to Wood Furring(1)
Joists with Concrete Topping(2) With or Without Bridging Joist Spacing, mm
0.34
Constant A 0.37
0.45 Constant B
0.31 0.37
0.38
Table A-9.23.4.2.(2)-B
Constants A and B for Calculating Vibration-Controlled Floor Joist Spans – Special Cases Forming Part of Note A-9.23.4.2.(2)
(1) Wood furring means 19 x 89 mm boards not more than 600 mm o.c., or 19 x 64 mm boards not more than 300 mm o.c. For all other cases, see Table A-9.23.4.2.(2)-A.
(2) 30 mm to 51 mm normal weight concrete (not less than 20 MPa) placed directly on the subflooring.
Table A-9.23.4.2.(2)-C
Constant G for Calculating Vibration-Controlled Floor Joist Spans Forming Part of Note A-9.23.4.2.(2)
Floor Description
Floors with nailed(1) subfloor
Floor with nailed and field-glued(2) subfloor, vibration-controlled span greater than 3 m Floor with nailed and field-glued(2) subfloor, vibration-controlled span 3 m or less
Notes to Table A-9.23.4.2.(2)-C:
Constant G
0.00 0.10 0.15
(1) Common wire nails, spiral nails or wood screws can be considered equivalent for this purpose.
(2) Subfloor field-glued to floor joists with elastomeric adhesive complying with CAN/CGSB-71.26-M, “Adhesive for Field-Gluing Plywood to Lumber
Framing for Floor Systems.”
Additional background information on this method can be found in the following publications:
• Onysko, D.M. “Deflection Serviceability Criteria for Residential Floors.” Project 43-10C-024. Forintek
Canada Corp., Ottawa, Canada 1988.
• Onysko, D.M. “Performance and Acceptability of Wood Floors – Forintek Studies.” Proceedings of
Symposium/Workshop on Serviceability of Buildings, Ottawa, May 16-18, National Research Council of Canada, Ottawa, 1988.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-503
                    © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-9.23.4.3.(1) Division B
A-9.23.4.3.(1) Maximum Spans for Steel Beams Supporting Floors in Dwellings. A beam may be considered to be laterally supported if wood joists bear on its top flange at intervals of 600 mm or less over its entire length, if all the load being applied to this beam is transmitted through the joists and if 19 mm by 38 mm wood strips in contact with the top flange are nailed on both sides of the beam to the bottom of the joists supported. Other additional methods of positive lateral support are acceptable.
For supported joist lengths intermediate between those in the table, straight line interpolation may be used in determining the maximum beam span.
A-Table 9.23.4.3. Spans for Steel Beams. The spans provided in Table 9.23.4.3. reflect a balance of engineering and acceptable proven performance. The spans have been calculated based on the following assumptions:
• simply supported beam spans • laterally supported top flange • yield strength 350 MPa
• deflection limit L/360
• live load: first floor = 1.9 kPa; second floor = 1.4 kPa • deadload:1.5kPa(0.5kPafloor+1.0kPapartition)
The calculation used to establish the specified maximum beam spans also applies a revised live load reduction factor to account for the lower probability of a full live load being applied over the supported area in
Part 9 buildings.
A-9.23.4.4. Concrete Topping. Vibration-controlled spans given in Span Table 9.23.4.2.-B for concrete topping are based on a partial composite action between the concrete, subflooring and joists. Normal weight concrete having a compressive strength of not less than 20 MPa, placed directly on the subflooring, provides extra stiffness and results in increased capacity. The use of a bond breaker between the topping and the subflooring, or the use of lightweight concrete topping limits the composite effects.
Where either a bond breaker or lightweight topping is used, Span Table 9.23.4.2.-A may be used but the additional dead load imposed by the concrete must be considered. The addition of 51 mm of concrete topping can impose an added load of 0.8 to 1.2 kPa, depending on the density of the concrete.
Example
Assumptions:
- basic dead load
- topping dead load
- total dead load
- live load
- vibration limit
- deflection limit
- ceiling attached directly to joists, no bridging
= 0.5 kPa
= 0.8 kPa
= 1.3 kPa
= 1.9 kPa
per Note A-9.23.4.2.(2) = 1/360
The spacing of joists in the span tables can be conservatively adjusted to allow for the increased load by using the spans in Span Table 9.23.4.2.-A for 600 mm spacing, but spacing the joists 400 mm apart. Similarly, floor beam span tables can be adjusted by using 4.8 m supported length spans for cases where the supported length equals 3.6 m.
9-504 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B A-9.23.10.4.(1)
A-9.23.8.3. Joint Location in Built-Up Beams.
Figure A-9.23.8.3.
Joint location in built-up beams
A-9.23.10.4.(1) Fingerjoined Lumber. NLGA 2014, “Standard Grading Rules for Canadian Lumber,” referenced in Article 9.3.2.1., refers to two special product standards, SPS-1, “Fingerjoined Structural Lumber,” and SPS-3, “Fingerjoined "Vertical Stud Use Only" Lumber,” produced by NLGA. Material identified as conforming to these standards is considered to meet the requirements in this Sentence for joining with a structural adhesive. Lumber fingerjoined in accordance with SPS-3 should be used as a vertical end-loaded member in compression only, where sustained bending or tension-loading conditions are not present, and where the moisture content of the wood will not exceed 19%. Fingerjoined lumber may not be visually regraded or remanufactured into a higher stress grade even if the quality of the lumber containing fingerjoints would otherwise warrant such regrading.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-505
     L2 (–+150 mm) 4
L1 (+150 mm) 4–
no joints permitted in the end spans in this location
not more than
one joint per piece in each span
column
joints in not more
than half the members at these locations
bearing plate above column
EG00908B
       L1
L2
  © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-9.23.10.6.(3)
Division B
A-9.23.10.6.(3) Single Studs at Sides of Openings.
Figure A-9.23.10.6.(3)-A
Single studs at openings in non-loadbearing interior walls
Figure A-9.23.10.6.(3)-B
Single studs at openings in all other walls
A-9.23.13. Bracing for Resistance to Lateral Loads. Subsection 9.23.14. along with Articles 9.23.3.4., 9.23.3.5., 9.23.6.1., 9.23.9.8., 9.23.15.5., 9.29.5.8., 9.29.5.9., 9.29.6.3. and 9.29.9.3. provide explicit requirements to address resistance to wind and earthquake loads in higher wind and earthquake regions of Canada.
9-506 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
       '  (
% & % & %&
    
       '   
 '   
      %&
   %&
 %&
      '   (
%&  '      '      
% &  '    ' 
$)
       %&
%
&
             Configurations which comply
(a), (b), (c) openings all narrower than and within stud space; no two full stud space width openings in adjacent stud spaces
Configurations which do not comply
(a) opening wider than stud space
(b) opening narrower than but not within stud space
(c) two openings, full stud space width, in adjacent stud spaces
EC00296C
    (a)
  (b)
    (c)
           (a)
 (b)
(c)
       © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
A-9.23.13.4.
Applicable Requirements
Bracing requirements in 9.23.13.
Part 4 or CWC Guide
Sa(0.2) > 1.8 Heavy Construction(1)
Light Construction
X(4)(5) N/A
Low to Moderate
HWP < 0.80 kPa
X
Wind (HWP) High
0.80 ≤ HWP < 1.20 kPa
All Construction
X
Extreme
HWP ≥ 1.20 kPa
N/A
Low to Moderate
Sa(0.2) ≤ 0.70
All Construction
X
High
0.70 < Sa(0.2) ≤ 1.8
Earthquake Sa(0.2) Extreme
High
0.70 < Sa(0.2) ≤ 1.8
Extreme Sa(0.2) > 1.8
Table A-9.23.13.
Application of Lateral Load Requirements
XXXXXXXX X = requirements are applicable
Notes to Table A-9.23.13.:
(1) See Note A-9.23.13.2.(1)(a)(i).
(2) Requirements apply to exterior walls only.
(3) Requirements apply where lowest exterior frame walls support not more than one floor.
(4) All constructions may include the support of a roof in addition to the stated number of floors.
(5) Requirements apply where lowest exterior frame walls support not more than two floors.
A-9.23.13.1.
Bracing to Resist Lateral Loads in Low Load Locations
Of the 679 locations identified in Appendix C, 614 are locations where the seismic spectral response acceleration, Sa(0.2), is less than or equal to 0.70 and the 1-in-50 hourly wind pressure is less than 0.80 kPa. For buildings in these locations, Sentence 9.23.13.1.(2) requires only that exterior walls be braced using the acceptable materials and fastening specified. There are no spacing or dimension requirements for braced wall panels in these buildings.
Structural Design for Lateral Wind and Earthquake Loads
In cases where lateral load design is required, CWC 2014, “Engineering Guide for Wood Frame Construction,” provides acceptable engineering solutions as an alternative to Part 4. The CWC Guide also contains alternative solutions and provides information on the applicability of the Part 9 prescriptive structural requirements to further assist designers and building officials to identify the appropriate design approach.
A-9.23.13.2.(1)(a)(i) Heavy Construction. “Heavy construction” refers to buildings with tile roofs, stucco walls or floors with concrete topping, or that are clad with directly-applied heavyweight materials.
Heavyweight construction assemblies increase the lateral load on the structure during an earthquake. Assemblies should be considered as heavyweight where their average dead weight is as follows (an additional partition weight of 0.5 kPa per floor is assumed):
• floor: 0.5 to 1.5 kPa
• roof: 0.5 to 1.0 kPa
• wall (vertical area): 0.32 to 1.2 kPa
A-9.23.13.4. Braced Wall Bands. Article 9.23.13.4. specifies the required characteristics of braced wall bands and their position in the building. Figures A-9.23.13.4.-A, A-9.23.13.4.-B and A-9.23.13.4.-C illustrate these requirements.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-507
X(3)(4) N/A
     Design requirements in 9.23.16.2., 9.27., 9.29.
  X(2)
 N/A
N/A
  X
N/A
  N/A
N/A
  N/A
      © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-9.23.13.4. Division B
Figure A-9.23.13.4.-A
Braced wall bands in an example building section [Clauses 9.23.13.4.(1)(a), (b) and (d)]
9-508 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
                           braced wall band
braced wall panel
9.23.13.4.(1)(b): braced wall band max. 1.2 m wide
9.23.13.4.(1)(a): braced wall band full storey height
9.23.13.4.(1)(d):
braced wall band aligned with braced wall bands on storeys above and below
EG00682A
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B A-9.23.13.4.
Figure A-9.23.13.4.-B
Lapping bands and building perimeter within braced wall bands [Clause 9.23.13.4.(1)(c) and Sentence 9.23.13.4.(2)]
Figure A-9.23.13.4.-C
Braced wall band at change in floor level in split-level buildings [Sentence 9.23.13.4.(3)]
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-509
                          9.23.13.4.(2): building perimeter within braced wall bands
             9.23.13.4.(1)(c): braced wall bands lap at both ends with another braced wall band so that the centre line of one band extends to the far side of the connecting band
braced wall band
centre line of band braced wall panel
EG00683A
                            GG00171A
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-Table 9.23.13.5. Division B
A-Table 9.23.13.5. Spacing of Braced Wall Bands and Braced Wall Panels. Identifying adjacent braced wall bands and determining the spacing of braced wall panels and braced wall bands is not complicated where the building plan is orthogonal or there are parallel braced wall bands: the adjacent braced wall band is the nearest parallel band. Figure Table A-9.23.13.5.-A illustrates spacing.
Figure Table A-9.23.13.5.-A
Spacing of parallel braced wall bands and spacing of braced wall panels
Identifying and Spacing Adjacent Non-Parallel Braced Wall Bands
Identifying the adjacent braced wall band and the spacing between braced wall bands is more complicated where the building plan is not orthogonal.
Where the plan is triangular, all braced wall bands intersect with the subject braced wall band. The prescriptive requirements in Part 9 do not apply to these cases and the building must be designed according to Part 4 with respect to lateral load resistance.
Where the braced wall bands are not parallel, the adjacent band is identified as follows using Figure Table A-9.23.13.5.-B as an example:
1. Determinethemid-pointofthecentrelineofthesubjectbracedwallband(A);
2. Project a perpendicular line from this mid-point (B);
3. Thefirstbracedwallbandencounteredistheadjacentbracedwallband(C);
4. Wheretheprojectedlineencountersanintersectionpointbetweentwobracedwallbands,eitherwall
band may be identified as the adjacent braced wall band (complex cases).
The spacing of non-parallel braced wall bands is measured as the greatest distance between the centre lines of the bands.
9-510 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
     AA
            A
       A
    B
     B
C
     C
        C
      B
braced wall band
braced wall panel
centre line of braced wall band
Where
A = distance between centre lines of adjacent braced wall bands B = distance between panel edges
C = distance from end of braced wall band to end of first braced
          wall panel
 EG00684A
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B A-Table 9.23.13.5.
Figure Table A-9.23.13.5.-B
Identification and spacing of adjacent non-parallel braced wall bands
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-511
                               C
spacing between adjacent braced wall bands
B
CC
B
A
Complex Cases
spacing between adjacent braced wall bands
 A
            Simple Cases
braced wall band
 braced wall panel
centre line of braced wall band
EG00685A
   © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-9.23.13.5.(2) Division B
A-9.23.13.5.(2) Perimeter Foundation Walls. Where the perimeter foundation walls in basements and crawl spaces extend from the footings to the underside of the supported floor, these walls perform the same function as braced wall bands with braced wall panels. All other braced wall bands in the basement or crawl space that align with bands with a wood-based bracing material on the upper floors need to be constructed with braced wall panels, which must be made of a wood-based bracing material, masonry or concrete. See Figure A-9.23.13.5.(2).
Figure A-9.23.13.5.(2)
Braced wall bands in basements or crawl spaces with optional and required braced wall panels
9-512 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
             10 m 4 m
10 m 10 m
 < 15 m
      > 15 m
          braced wall panels not required in braced wall band in basement
braced wall panels required in braced wall band in basement
 10 m
5 m
10 m
   15 m
10 m
    braced wall band
braced wall panels required in one braced wall band in basement
 centre line of braced wall band
braced wall panel with OSB, waferboard, plywood or diagonal lumber providing required bracing braced wall panel with gypsum board interior finish providing required bracing
EG00687A
    © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 202,adanaCudsehcrehceredlanoitanliesnoCelrapétnesérper,adanaCudfehcudioRelétsejaMaS©202,adanaCfolicnuoChcraeseRlanoitaNehtybdetneserpersa,adanaCfothgiRnigniKehtytsejaMsiH©
Division B
A-9.23.13.5.(3)
A-9.23.13.5.(3)
Attachment of a Porch Roof to Exterior Wall Framing.
wall studs of the main building’s exterior braced wall band
end joists attached to wall studs with 2 x 76 mm nails
roof sheathed with structural wood panel or diagonally sheathed lumber
Figure A-9.23.13.5.(3)-A
Framing perpendicular to plane of wall (balloon construction)
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Division B
9-513
ledger attached
to wall studs to resist gravity loads
end joists attached to wall studs with 2 x 76 mm nails
lesser of 3.5 m
or
1/2 perpendicular plan dimension
perpendicular plan dimension
EG00695A

 202,adanaCudsehcrehceredlanoitanliesnoCelrapétnesérper,adanaCudfehcudioRelétsejaMaS©202,adanaCfolicnuoChcraeseRlanoitaNehtybdetneserpersa,adanaCfothgiRnigniKehtytsejaMsiH©
A-9.23.13.6.(5) and (6)
Division B
wall studs of the main building’s exterior braced wall band
ledger attached
to wall studs to support header beam
Figure A-9.23.13.5.(3)-B Framing parallel to plane of wall
roof sheathed with structural wood panel or diagonally sheathed lumber
A-9.23.13.6.(5) and (6) Use of Gypsum Board Interior Finish to Provide Required Bracing. Braced wall panels constructed with gypsum board provide less resistance to lateral loads than panels constructed with OSB, waferboard, plywood or diagonal lumber; Sentence (5) therefore limits the use of gypsum board to interior walls. Sentence (6) further limits its use to provide the required lateral resistance
by requiring that walls not more than 15 m apart be constructed with panels made of wood or wood-based sheathing. See Figure A-9.23.13.6.(5) and (6).
9-514 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
perpendicular plan dimension
lesser of 3.5 m
or
1/2 perpendicular plan dimension
EG00696A

 Division B A-9.24.3.2.(3)
Figure A-9.23.13.6.(5) and (6)
Braced wall panels constructed of wood-based material
A-9.23.14.11.(2) Wood Roof Truss Connections. Sentence 9.23.14.11.(2) requires that
the connections used in wood roof trusses be designed in conformance with Subsection 4.3.1. and
Sentence 2.2.1.2.(1) of Division C, which applies to all of Part 4, requires that the designer be a professional engineer or architect skilled in the work concerned. This has the effect of requiring that the trusses themselves be designed by professional engineers or architects. Although this is a departure from the usual practice in Part 9, it is appropriate, since wood roof trusses are complex structures which depend on a number of components (chord members, web members, cross-bracing, connectors) working together to function safely. This complexity precludes the standardization of truss design into tables comprehensive enough to satisfy the variety of roof designs required by the housing industry.
A-9.23.15.2.(4) Water Absorption Test. A method for determining water absorption is described
in ASTM D 1037, “Evaluating Properties of Wood-Base Fiber and Particle Panel Materials.” The treatment to reduce water absorption may be considered to be acceptable if a 300 mm x 300 mm sample when treated on all sides and edges does not increase in weight by more than 6% when tested in the horizontal position.
A-9.23.15.4.(2) OSB. CSA O437.0, “OSB and Waferboard,” requires that Type O (aligned or oriented) panels be marked to show the grade and the direction of face alignment.
A-9.24.3.2.(3) Framing Above Doors in Steel Stud Fire Separations.
Figure A-9.24.3.2.(3) Steel stud header detail
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-515
          maximum 15 m
    maximum 15 m
     maximum 15 m
                                  braced wall band
centre line of braced wall band
braced wall panel with OSB, waferboard, plywood or diagonal lumber providing required bracing
braced wall panel with gypsum board interior finish providing required bracing EG00686A
       jack stud gypsum board
two screws - one at each end of header track
2 tracks back to back gypsum board
door frame
             EC01219A
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-9.25.2.2.(2) Division B
A-9.25.2.2.(2) Flame-Spread Ratings of Insulating Materials. Part 9 has no requirements for flame-spread ratings of insulation materials since these are seldom exposed in parts of buildings where fires are likely to start. Certain of the insulating material standards referenced in Sentence 9.25.2.2.(1) do include flame-spread rating criteria. These are included either because the industry producing the product wishes
to demonstrate that their product does not constitute a fire hazard or because the product is regulated by authorities other than building authorities (e.g., “Hazardous Products Act”). However, the Code cannot apply such requirements to some materials and not to others. Hence, these flame-spread rating requirements are excepted in referencing these standards.
A-9.25.2.3.(3) Position of Insulation. For thermal insulation to be effective, it must not be short-circuited by convective airflow through or around the material. If low-density fibrous insulation is installed with an air space on both sides of the insulation, the temperature differential between the warm and cold sides will drive convective airflow around the insulation. If foamed plastic insulation is spot-adhered
to a backing wall or adhered in a grid pattern to an air-permeable substrate, and is not sealed at the joints and around the perimeter, air spaces between the insulation and the substrate will interconnect with spaces behind the cladding. Any temperature or air pressure differential across the insulation will again lead to short circuiting of the insulation by airflow. Thermal insulation must therefore be installed in full and continuous contact with the air barrier or another continuous component with low air permeance. (See Note A-9.25.5.1.(1) for examples of low-air-permeance materials.)
A-9.25.2.4.(3) Loose-Fill Insulation in Existing Wood-Frame Walls. The addition of insulation into exterior walls of existing wood-frame buildings increases the likelihood of damage to framing and cladding components as a result of moisture accumulation. Many older homes were constructed with little or no regard for protection from vapour transmission or air leakage from the interior. Adding thermal insulation will substantially reduce the temperature of the siding or sheathing in winter months, possibly leading to condensation of moisture at this location.
Defects in exterior cladding, flashing and caulking could result in rain entering the wall cavity. This moisture, if retained by the added insulation, could initiate the process of decay.
Steps should be taken therefore, to minimize these effects prior to the retrofit of any insulation. Any openings in walls that could permit leakage of interior heated air into the wall cavity should be sealed. The inside surface should be coated with a low-permeability paint to reduce moisture transfer by diffusion. Finally, the exterior siding, flashing and caulking should be checked and repaired if necessary to prevent rain penetration.
A-9.25.2.4.(5) Loose-Fill Insulation in Masonry Walls. Typical masonry cavity wall construction techniques do not lend themselves to the prevention of entry of rainwater into the wall space. For this reason, loose-fill insulation used in such space must be of the water repellent type. A test for water-repellency of loose-fill insulation suitable for installation in masonry cavity walls can be found in ASTM C 516, “Vermiculite Loose Fill Thermal Insulation.”
A-9.25.3.1.(1) Air Barrier Systems for Control of Condensation. The majority of moisture problems resulting from condensation of water vapour in walls and ceiling/attic spaces are caused by the leakage of moist interior heated air into these spaces rather than by the diffusion of water vapour through the building envelope.
Protection against such air leakage must be provided by a system of air-impermeable materials joined with leak-free joints. Generally, air leakage protection can be provided by the use of air-impermeable sheet materials, such as gypsum board or polyethylene of sufficient thickness, when installed with appropriate structural support. However, the integrity of the airtight elements in the air barrier system can be compromised at the joints and here special care must be taken in design and construction to achieve an effective air barrier system.
Although Section 9.25. refers separately to vapour barriers and airtight elements in the air barrier system, these functions in a wall or ceiling assembly of conventional wood-frame construction are often combined as a single membrane that acts as a barrier against moisture diffusion and the movement of interior air into insulated wall or roof cavities. Openings cut through this membrane, such as for electrical boxes, provide opportunities for air leakage into concealed spaces, and special measures must be taken to make such openings as airtight as possible. Attention must also be paid to less obvious leakage paths, such as holes for electric wiring, plumbing installations, wall-ceiling and wall-floor intersections, and gaps created by shrinkage of framing members.
In any case, air leakage must be controlled to a level where the occurrence of condensation will be sufficiently rare, or the quantities accumulated sufficiently small, and drying sufficiently rapid, to avoid material deterioration and the growth of mould and fungi.
9-516 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B A-9.25.3.4. and 9.25.3.6.
Generally the location in a building assembly of the airtight element of the air barrier system is not critical; it can restrict air leakage whether it is located near the outer surface of the assembly, near the inner surface or at some intermediate location. However, if a material chosen to act as an airtight element in the air barrier system also has the characteristics of a vapour barrier (i.e., low permeability to water vapour), its location must be chosen more carefully in order to avoid moisture problems. (See Notes A-9.25.5.1.(1) and A-9.25.4.3.(2).)
In some constructions, an airtight element in the air barrier system is the interior finish, such as gypsum board, which is sealed to framing members and adjacent components by gaskets, caulking, tape or other methods
to complete the air barrier system. In such cases, special care in sealing joints in a separate vapour barrier is not critical. This approach often uses no separate vapour barrier but relies on appropriate paint coatings to give the interior finish sufficient resistance to water vapour diffusion that it can provide the required vapour diffusion protection.
The wording in Section 9.25. allows for such innovative techniques, as well as the more traditional approach of using a continuous sheet, such as polyethylene, to act as an “air/vapour barrier.”
Further information can be found in CBD 231, “Moisture Problems in Houses” (Canadian Building Digest 231), by A.T. Hansen, which is available from NRC.
A-9.25.3.4. and 9.25.3.6. Air Leakage and Soil Gas Control in Floors-on-ground. The requirement in Sentence 9.25.3.3.(6) regarding the sealing of penetrations of the air barrier also applies to hollow metal and masonry columns penetrating the floor slab. Not only the perimeters but also the centres of such columns must be sealed or blocked.
Figure A-9.25.3.4. and 9.25.3.6.-A
Dampproofing and soil gas control at foundation wall/floor junctions with solid walls
The requirement in Sentence 9.25.3.6.(6) regarding drainage openings in slabs can be satisfied with any of a number of proprietary devices that prevent the entry of radon and other soil gases through floor drains. Some types of floor drains incorporate a trap that is connected to a nearby tap so that the trap is filled every time the tap is used. This is intended to prevent the entry of sewer gas but would be equally effective against
the entry of radon and other soil gases.
Figure A-9.25.3.4. and 9.25.3.6.-B
Dampproofing and soil gas control at foundation wall/floor junctions with hollow walls
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-517
   exterior wall dampproofing (bituminous)
flexible sealant
slab dampproofing
and soil gas barrier (0.15 mm polyethylene)
100 mm granular fill EC00419B
                        exterior wall dampproofing (bituminous)
parging flexible sealant
slab dampproofing and soil gas barrier
                       granular fill
EG00419C
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-9.25.3.6.(2) and (3) Division B
A-9.25.3.6.(2) and (3) Polyethylene Air Barriers under Floors-on-Ground. Floors-on-ground separating conditioned space from the ground must be constructed to reduce the potential for the entry of air, radon or other soil gases. In most cases, this will be accomplished by placing 0.15 mm polyethylene under the floor.
Finishing a concrete slab placed directly on polyethylene can, in many cases, cause problems for the inexperienced finisher. A rule of finishing, whether concrete is placed on polyethylene or not, is to never finish or “work” the surface of the slab while bleed water is present or before all the bleed water has risen to the surface and evaporated. If finishing operations are performed before all the bleed water has risen and evaporated, surface defects such as blisters, crazing, scaling and dusting can result. In the case of slabs placed directly on polyethylene, the amount of bleed water that may rise to the surface and the time required for it to do so are increased compared to a slab placed on a compacted granular base. Because of the polyethylene, the excess water in the mix from the bottom portion of the slab cannot bleed downward and out of the slab and be absorbed into the granular material below. Therefore, all bleed water, including that from the bottom of the slab, must now rise through the slab to the surface. Quite often in such cases, finishing operations are begun too soon and surface defects result.
One solution that is often suggested is to place a layer of sand between the polyethylene and the concrete. However, this is not an acceptable solution for the following reason: it is unlikely that the polyethylene will survive the slab pouring process entirely intact. Nevertheless, the polyethylene will still be effective in retarding the flow of soil gas if it is in intimate contact with the concrete; soil gas will only be able to penetrate where a break in the polyethylene coincides with a crack in the concrete. The majority of concrete cracks will probably be underlain by intact polyethylene. On the other hand, if there is an intervening layer of a porous medium, such as sand, soil gas will be able to travel laterally from a break in the polyethylene to the nearest crack in the concrete and the total system will be much less resistant to soil gas penetration.
To reduce and/or control the cracking of concrete slabs, it is necessary to understand the nature and causes of volume changes of concrete and in particular those relating to drying shrinkage. The total amount of water
in a mix is by far the largest contributor to the amount of drying shrinkage and resulting potential cracking that may be expected from a given concrete. The less total amount of water in the mix, the less volume
change (due to evaporation of water), which means the less drying shrinkage that will occur. To lessen the volume change and potential cracking due to drying shrinkage, a mix with the lowest total amount of water that is practicable should always be used. To lower the water content of a mix, superplasticizers are often added to provide the needed workability of the concrete during the placing operation. Concretes with a high water-to-cementing-materials ratio usually have high water content mixes. They should be avoided to minimize drying shrinkage and cracking of the slab. The water-to-cementing-materials ratio for slabs-on-ground should be no higher than 0.55.
A-9.25.4.2.(2) Normal Conditions. The requirement for a 60 ng/Pa·s·m2 vapour barrier stated in Sentence 9.25.4.2.(1) is based on the assumption that the building assembly is subjected to conditions that are considered normal for typical residential occupancies, and business and personal services occupancies.
However, where the intended use of an occupancy includes facilities or activities that will generate a substantial amount of moisture indoors during the heating season, such as swimming pools, greenhouses, laundromats, and any continuous operation of hot tubs and saunas, the building envelope assemblies would have to demonstrate acceptable performance levels in accordance with the requirements in Part 5.
A-9.25.4.3.(2) Location of Vapour Barriers. Assemblies in which the vapour barrier is located partway through the insulation meet the intent of this Article provided it can be shown that the temperature of the vapour barrier will not fall below the dew point of the heated interior air.
A-9.25.5.1. Location of Low Permeance Materials.
Low Air- and Vapour-Permeance Materials and Implications for Moisture Accumulation
The location in a building assembly of a material with low air permeance is generally not critical; the material can restrict outward movement of indoor air whether it is located near the outer surface of the assembly, near the inner surface, or at some intermediate location, and such restriction of air movement is generally beneficial, whether or not the particular material is designated as part of the air barrier system. However, if such a material also has the characteristics of a vapour barrier (i.e. low permeability to water vapour), its location must be chosen more carefully in order to avoid moisture accumulation.
9-518 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B A-9.25.5.1.
Any moisture from the indoor air that diffuses through the inner layers of the assembly or is carried by air leakage through those layers may be prevented from diffusing or being transferred through the assembly by a low air- and vapour-permeance material. This moisture transfer will usually not cause a problem if the material is located where the temperature is above the dew point of the indoor air: the water vapour will remain as vapour, the humidity level in the assembly will come to equilibrium with that of the indoor air, further accumulation of moisture will cease or stabilize at a low rate, and no harm will be done.
But if the low air- and vapour-permeance material is located where the temperature is below the dew point of the air at that location, water vapour will condense and accumulate as water or ice, which will reduce the humidity level and encourage the movement of more water vapour into the assembly. If the temperature remains below the dew point for any length of time, significant moisture could accumulate. When warmer weather returns, the presence of a material with low water vapour permeance can retard drying of the accumulated moisture. Moisture that remains into warmer weather can support the growth of decay organisms.
Due consideration should be given to the properties and location of any material in the building envelope, including paints, liquid-applied or sprayed-on and trowelled-on materials. It is recognized that constructions that include low air- and vapour-permeance materials are acceptable, but only where these materials are not susceptible to damage from moisture or where they can accommodate moisture, for example insulated concrete walls. Further information on the construction of basement walls may be found in “Performance Guidelines for Basement Envelope Systems and Materials,” published by NRC.
Cladding
Different cladding materials have different vapour permeances and different degrees of susceptibility to moisture deterioration. They are each installed in different ways that are more or less conducive to the release of moisture that may accumulate on the inner surface. Sheet or panel-type cladding materials, such as metal sheet, have a vapour permeance less than 60 ng/(Pa·s·m2). Sheet metal cladding that has lock seams also has a low air leakage characteristic and so must be installed outboard of a drained and vented air space. Assemblies clad with standard residential vinyl or metal strip siding do not require additional protection as the joints are not so tight as to prevent the dissipation of moisture.
Sheathing
Like cladding, sheathing materials have different vapour permeances and different degrees of susceptibility to moisture deterioration.
Low-permeance sheathing may serve as the vapour barrier if it can be shown that the temperature of the interior surface of the sheathing will not fall below that at which saturation will occur. This may be the case where insulating sheathing is used.
Thermal Insulation
Where low-permeance foamed plastic is the sole thermal insulation in a building assembly, the temperature of the inner surface of this element will be close to the interior temperature. If the foamed plastic insulation has a permeance below 60 ng/Pa·s·m2, it can fulfill the function of a vapour barrier to control condensation within the assembly due to vapour diffusion. However, where low-permeance thermal insulating sheathing is installed on the outside of an insulated frame wall, the temperature of the inner surface of the insulating sheathing may fall below the dew point; in this case, the function of vapour barrier has to be provided by a separate building element installed on the warm side of the assembly.
Normal Conditions
The required minimum ratios given in Table 9.25.5.2. are based on the assumption that the building assembly is subjected to conditions that are considered normal for typical residential occupancies, and business and personal services occupancies.
However, where the intended use of an occupancy includes facilities or activities that will generate a substantial amount of moisture indoors during the heating season, such as swimming pools, greenhouses, the operation of a laundromat or any continuous operation of
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-519
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-9.25.5.1.(1) Division B
hot tubs and saunas, the building envelope assemblies would have to demonstrate acceptable performance levels in accordance with the requirements in Part 5.
A-9.25.5.1.(1) Air and Vapour Permeance Values. The air leakage characteristics and water vapour permeance values for a number of common materials are given in Table A-9.25.5.1.(1). These values are provided on a generic basis; proprietary products may have values differing somewhat from those in the Table (consult the manufacturers’ current data sheets for their products’ values).
The values quoted are for the material thickness listed. Water vapour permeance is inversely proportional to thickness: therefore, greater thicknesses will have lower water vapour permeance values.
Material
Sheet and panel-type materials 12.7-mm gypsum board
• painted (1 coat primer)
• painted (1 coat primer + 2 coats latex paint) 12.7-mm foil-backed gypsum board
12.7-mm gypsum board sheathing
6.4-mm plywood
11-mm oriented strandboard 12.5-mm cement board
plywood (from 9.5 mm to 18 mm) fibreboard sheathing
17-mm wood sheathing Insulation
27-mm foil-faced polyisocyanurate 27-mm paper-faced polyisocyanurate 25-mm extruded polystyrene
25-mm expanded polystyrene (Type 2) fibrous insulations
25-mm polyurethane spray foam – low density
25-mm polyurethane spray foam – medium density Membrane-type materials
asphalt-impregnated paper (10 min paper) asphalt-impregnated paper (30 min paper) asphalt-impregnated paper (60 min paper) water-resistive barriers (9 materials) 0.15-mm polyethylene
asphalt-saturated felt (#15)
building paper
spun-bonded polyolefin film (expanded)
Other materials
brick (6 materials)
metal
mortar mixes (4 materials)
stucco
50-mm reinforced concrete (density: 2 330 kg/m3)
Notes to Table A-9.25.5.1.(1):
(1) Air leakage and vapour permeance values derived from:
Table A-9.25.5.1.(1)
Air and Vapour Permeance Values(1) Forming Part of Note A-9.25.5.1.(1)
Air Leakage Characteristic, L/(s·m2) at 75 Pa(Air Permeance)
0.02
negligible
negligible
negligible
0.0091
0.0084
0.0108
0.147
negligible – 0.01
0.012 – 1.91
high – depends on no. of joints
negligible negligible negligible 0.0214 very high 0.011 negligible
0.0673
0.4
0.44 negligible – 4.3 negligible 0.153 0.2706 0.9593
negligible negligible negligible negligible negligible
Water Vapour Permeance, (Dry Cup) ng/(Pa·s·m2)
2600 1300 180 negligible 1373
23 – 74 44 (range) 590
40 – 57 100 – 2900 982
4.3 61.1
23 – 92 86 – 160 very high 894 – 3791 96(2)
370
650 1800
30 – 1200 1.6 – 5.8 290 170 – 1400 3646
102 – 602 negligible 13 – 690 75 – 240 23
9-520 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
      © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
A-9.25.5.1.(3)
Table A-9.25.5.1.(1) (Continued)
• Bombaru,D.,Jutras,R.andPatenaude,A.“AirPermeanceofBuildingMaterials.”SummaryReportpreparedbyAIR-INSInc.forCanada Mortgage and Housing Corporation, Ottawa, 1988. Values indicate properties of tested materials only; values for specific products
may vary significantly.
• “DetailsofAirBarrierSystemsforHouses.”TarionWarrantyCorporation(formerlyOntarioNewHomeWarrantyProgram),Toronto,1993.
• Kumaran,M.K.,etal.,ASHRAEResearchReport1018RP,AThermalandMoistureTransportPropertyDatabaseforCommonBuildingand
Insulating Materials.
• Kumaran,M.K.,Lackey,J.,Normandin,N.,vanReenen,D.,Tariku,F.,SummaryReportfromTask3ofMEWSProjectattheInstitutefor
Research in Construction-Hygrothermal Properties of Several Building Materials, IRC-RR-110, March 2002.
• Mukhopadhyaya,P.,Kumaran,M.K.,etal.,HygrothermalPropertiesofExteriorCladdings,SheathingsBoards,MembranesandInsulation
Materials for Building Envelope Design, Proceedings of Thermal Perfomance of the Exterior Envelopes of Whole Building X, Clearwater,
Florida, December 2-7, 2007, pp. 1-16 (NRCC-50287).
(2) This water vapour permeance value is for a 25-mm-thick core layer of medium-density polyurethane spray foam. When installed in the field, a
low permeance resin layer forms where the foam is in contact with the substrate. The water vapour permeance of the installed foam, were it measured including the resin layer, would therefore likely be lower than the value listed in the Table.
A-9.25.5.1.(1)(a)(ii) Reduced Potential for Condensation in the Building Envelope. The requirements in Article 9.25.5.2. aim to reduce the risk of condensation being introduced into wall assemblies due to the water vapour permeance of the outboard materials. Research has confirmed that the reduced condensation potential of exterior continuous insulation with a thermal resistance of at least 0.7 (m2·K)/W and a water vapour permeance between 30 and 1 800 ng/(Pa·s·m2) compares to reference assemblies without exterior insulation in a given geographic location and climatic exposure.
A-9.25.5.1.(3) Wood-based Sheathing Materials. Wood-based sheathing materials, such as plywood and OSB, that are not more than 12.5 mm thick are exempt from complying with Sentence 9.25.5.1.(1) because wood has an adaptive vapour permeance based on relative humidity: it has a low vapour permeance in an environment with low relative humidity and a higher vapour permeance in an environment with high relative humidity (see Figure A-9.25.5.1.(3)). This adaptive vapour permeance means that wood-based materials located on the outboard side of an assembly in winter, where the RH is typically 75% or higher, are relatively vapour-open, thus allowing greater vapour movement. The same wood-based material located on the inboard side of an assembly, where the RH is typically much lower in winter, has a low vapour permeance, thus mitigating the movement of vapour.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-521
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-9.25.5.2. Division B
Figure A-9.25.5.1.(3)
Adaptive water vapour permeance of wood-based sheathing materials
A-9.25.5.2. Assumptions Followed in Developing Table 9.25.5.2. Article 9.25.5.2. specifies that a low air- and vapour-permeance material must be located on the warm face of the assembly, outboard of a vented air space, or within the assembly at a position where its inner surface is likely to be warm enough for most of the heating season such that no significant accumulation of moisture will occur. This last position is defined by the ratio of the thermal resistance values outboard and inboard of the innermost impermeable surface of the material in question.
The design values given in Table 9.25.5.2. are based on the assumption that the building includes a mechanical ventilation system (between 0.3 and 0.5 air changes per hour), a 60 ng/Pa·s·m2 vapour barrier, and an air barrier (values between 0.024 and 0.1 L/sm2 through the assembly were used). The moisture generated by occupants and their use of bathrooms, cleaning, laundry and kitchen appliances was assumed to fall between 7.5 and 11.5 L per day.
It has been demonstrated through modeling under these conditions that assemblies constructed according to the requirements in Table 9.25.5.2. do not lead to moisture accumulation levels that may lead to deterioration as long as the average monthly vapour pressure difference between the exterior and interior sides over the heating season does not increase above 750 Pa, which would translate into an interior relative humidity of 35% in colder climates and 60% in mild climates.
Health Canada recommends an indoor relative humidity between 35% and 50% for healthy conditions. ASHRAE accepts a 30% to 60% range. Environments that are much drier tend to exacerbate respiratory problems and allergies; more humid environments tend to support the spread of microbes, moulds and dust mites, which can adversely affect health.
9-522 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
   2000
1800
1600
1400
1200
1000
 800
 600
 400
 200
0
0 20 40 60 80 100
Relative humidity, %
EG01392A
 OSB (11 mm thick with a density of 650 kg/m3) plywood (15 mm thick with a density of 600 kg/m3) range of extruded polystyrene products (25 mm thick)
       Water vapour permeance, ng/Pa·s·m2
       © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B A-9.25.5.2.
In most of Canada in the winter, indoor RH is limited by the exterior temperature and the corresponding temperature on the inside of windows. During colder periods, indoor RH higher than 35% will cause significant condensation on windows. When this occurs, occupants are likely to increase the ventilation to remove excess moisture. Although indoor RH may exceed 35% for short periods when the outside temperature is warmer, the criteria provided in Table 9.25.5.2. will still apply. Where higher relative humidities are maintained for extended periods in these colder climates, the ratios listed in the Table may not provide adequate protection. Some occupancies require that RH be maintained above 35% throughout the year, and some interior spaces support activities such as swimming that create high relative humidities. In these cases, Table 9.25.5.2. cannot be used and the position of the materials must be determined according to Part 5.
It should be noted that Part 9 building envelopes in regions with colder winters have historically performed acceptably when the interior RH does not exceed 35% over most of the heating season. With tighter building envelopes, it is possible to raise interior RH levels above 35%. There is no information, however, on how
Part 9 building envelopes will perform when exposed to these higher indoor RH levels for extended periods during the heating season over many years. Operation of the ventilation system, as intended to remove indoor pollutants, will maintain the lower RH levels as necessary.
Calculating Inboard to Outboard Thermal Resistance
The method of calculating the inboard to outboard thermal resistance ratio is illustrated in Figure A-9.25.5.2. The example wall section shows three planes where low air- and vapour-permeance materials have been installed. A vapour barrier, installed to meet the requirements of Subsection 9.25.4., is on the warm side of the insulation consistent with Clause 9.25.5.2.(1)(a) and Sentences 9.25.4.1.(1) and 9.25.4.3.(2). The vinyl siding has an integral drained and vented air space consistent with Clause 9.25.5.2.(1)(c). The position of the interior face of the low-permeance insulating sheathing, however, must be reviewed in terms of its thermal resistance relative to the overall thermal resistance of the wall, and the climate where the building is located.
Comparing the RSI ratio from the example wall section with those in Table 9.25.5.2. indicates that this wall would be acceptable in areas with Celsius degree-day values up to 7999, which includes, for example, Whitehorse, Fort McMurray, Yorkton, Flin Flon, Geraldton, Val-d’Or and Wabush. (Degree-day values for various locations in Canada are provided in Appendix C.)
A similar calculation would indicate that, for a similar assembly with a 140 mm stud cavity filled with an RSI 3.52 batt, the ratio would be 0.28. Thus such a wall could be used in areas with Celsius degree-day values up to 4999, which includes, for example, Cranbrook, Lethbridge, Ottawa, Montreal, Fredericton, Sydney, Charlottetown and St. John’s.
Similarly, if half the thickness of the same low-permeance sheathing were used, the ratio with an 89 mm cavity would be 0.25, permitting its use in areas with Celsius degree-day values up to 4999. The ratio with a 140 mm cavity would be 0.16; thus this assembly could not be used anywhere, since this ratio is below the minimum permitted in Table 9.25.5.2.
Table A-9.25.5.2. shows the minimum thicknesses of low-permeance insulating sheathing necessary to satisfy Article 9.25.5.2. in various degree-day zones for a range of resistivity values of insulating sheathing. These thicknesses are based on the detail shown in Figure A-9.25.5.2. but could also be used with cladding details, such as brick veneer or wood siding, which provide equal or greater outboard thermal resistance.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-523
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-9.25.5.2. Division B
Figure A-9.25.5.2.
Example of a wall section showing thermal resistance inboard and outboard of a plane of low air and vapour permeance
9-524 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
            plane of low air and vapour permeance
  air film
13 mm gypsum board
Type 2 vapour barrier
glass fibre batt in 89 mm stud cavity
insulating sheathing
metal or vinyl siding air film
        Inboard
Outboard
RSI value
0.12 0.08 2.11
0.87 0.12 0.03
Total RSI value
2.31
1.02
Ratio
1.02 = 0.44 2.31
 EG00382C
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
A-9.27.2.
Celsius Heating Degree-days
Min. RSI Ratio
Min. Outboard Thermal Resistance, RSI
38 x 89 Framing
Min. Sheathing Thickness, mm
Sheathing Thermal Resistance, RSI/mm
0.0300 0.0325 0.0350 0.0400
Min. Outboard Thermal Resistance, RSI
0.72 1.07 1.25 1.43 1.79 1.97 2.15 2.33 2.69
38 x 140 Framing
Min. Sheathing Thickness, mm
Sheathing Thermal Resistance, RSI/mm
0.0300 0.0325 0.0350 0.0400
19 17 16 14 31 28 26 23 37 34 32 28 43 39 37 32 55 50 47 41 61 56 52 45 67 61 57 50 73 67 62 54 85 78 72 63
≤4999 0.20 5000 to 5999 0.30 6000 to 6999 0.35 7000 to 7999 0.40 8000 to 8999 0.50 9000 to 9999 0.55
10000 to 10999 0.60 11000 to 11999 0.65 ≥ 12000 0.75
References
0.46 10 10 0.69 18 17 0.81 22 20 0.92 26 24 1.16 34 31 1.27 37 34 1.39 41 38 1.50 45 42 1.73 53 49
9 8 16 14 19 16 22 19 29 25 32 28 35 31 39 34 45 40
Table A-9.25.5.2.
Minimum Thicknesses of Low-Permeance Insulating Sheathing Forming Part of Note A-9.25.5.2.
(1) “ExposureGuidelinesforResidentialIndoorAirQuality,”EnvironmentalHealthDirectorate,Health Protection Branch, Health Canada, Ottawa, April 1987 (Revised July 1989).
(2) ANSI/ASHRAE62,“VentilationforAcceptableIndoorAirQuality.”
A-9.26.1.1.(1) Platforms that Effectively Serve as Roofs. Decks, balconies, exterior walkways and similar exterior surfaces effectively serve as roofs where these platforms do not permit the free drainage of water through the deck. When water is driven by wind across the deck (roof) surface, it can be driven upward when it encounters an interruption.
A-9.26.2.3.(4) Fasteners for Treated Shingles. Where shingles or shakes have been chemically treated with a preservative or a fire retardant, the fastener should be of a material known to be compatible with the chemicals used in the treatment.
A-9.26.4.1. Junctions between Roofs and Walls or Guards. Drainage of water from decks and other platforms that effectively serve as roofs will be blocked by walls, and blocked or restricted by guards where significant lengths and heights of material are connected to the deck. Without proper flashing at such roof-wall junctions or roof-guard junctions, water will generally leak into the adjoining constructions and can penetrate into supporting constructions below. Exceptions include platforms where waterproof curbs of sufficient height are cast-in or where the deck and wall or guard are unit-formed. In these cases, the monolithic deck-wall or deck-guard junctions will minimize the likelihood of water ingress. (See also Note A-9.26.1.1.(1).)
A-9.26.17.1.(1) Installation of Concrete Roof Tiles. Where concrete roof tiles are to be installed, the dead load imposed by this material should be considered in determining the minimum sizes and maximum spans of the supporting roof members.
A-9.27.1.1.(5) EIFS on Walls with Cold-Formed Steel Stud Framing. While Part 9 permits the installation of exterior insulation finish systems on walls with cold-formed steel stud framing, the design of loadbearing steel walls is outside the scope of Part 9 and is addressed in Part 4 (see Sentence 9.24.1.1.(2)).
A-9.27.2. Required Protection from Precipitation. Part 5 and Part 9 of the NBC recognize that mass walls and face-sealed, concealed barrier and rainscreen assemblies have their place in the Canadian context.
Mass walls are generally constructed of cast-in-place concrete or masonry. Without cladding or surface finish, they can be exposed to precipitation for a significant period before moisture will penetrate from the exterior to the interior. The critical characteristics of these walls are related to thickness, mass, and moisture transfer properties, such as shedding, absorption and moisture diffusivity.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-525
        © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-9.27.2. Division B
Face-sealed assemblies have only a single plane of protection. Sealant installed between cladding elements
and other envelope components is part of the air barrier system and is exposed to the weather. Face-sealed assemblies are appropriate where it can be demonstrated that they will provide acceptable performance with respect to the health and safety of the occupants, the operation of building services and the provision of conditions suitable for the intended occupancy. These assemblies, however, require more intensive, regular and ongoing maintenance, and should only be selected on the basis of life-cycle costing considering the risk of failure and all implications should failure occur. Climate loads such as wind-driven rain, for example, should be considered. Face-sealed assemblies are not recommended where the building owner may not be aware of the maintenance issue or where regular maintenance may be problematic.
Concealed barrier assemblies include both a first and second plane of protection. The first plane comprises the cladding, which is intended to handle the majority of the precipitation load. The second plane of protection is intended to handle any water that penetrates the cladding plane. It allows for the dissipation of this water, primarily by gravity drainage, and provides a barrier to further ingress.
Like concealed barrier assemblies, rainscreen assemblies include both a first and second plane of protection. The first plane comprises the cladding, which is designed and constructed to handle virtually all of the precipitation load. The second plane of protection is designed and constructed to handle only very small quantities of incidental water; composition of the second plane is described in Note A-9.27.3.1. In these assemblies, the air barrier system, which plays a role in controlling precipitation ingress due to air pressure difference, is protected from the elements. (See Figure A-9.27.2.)
Figure A-9.27.2.
Generic rainscreen assemblies
The cladding assembly described in Sentence 9.27.2.2.(4) is a basic rainscreen assembly. This approach is required for residential buildings where a higher level of ongoing performance is expected without significant maintenance. This approach, however, is recommended in all cases.
9-526 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
   rain penetration control elements
rain penetration control elements
rain penetration control elements
 first plane of protection (cladding)
second plane of protection (air space and sheathing membrane)
first plane of protection (cladding)
second plane of protection (insulating sheathing)
inner boundary of second plane of protection
heat, air and vapour control elements with structural elements and finishes
(b)
first plane of protection (composite cladding)
second plane of protection (2 layers
of sheathing membrane)
inner boundary of second plane of protection
               inner boundary of second plane of protection
      heat, air and vapour control elements with structural elements and finishes
(a)
heat, air and vapour control elements with structural elements and finishes
(c)
EC02060A
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B A-9.27.3.1.
The cladding assemblies described in Sentence 9.27.2.2.(5) are also rainscreen assemblies. The assembly described in Clause 9.27.2.2.(1)(c) is again a basic rainscreen assembly. A wall with a capillary break as described in Clause 9.27.2.2.(1)(a) is an open rainscreen assembly. Walls with a capillary break as described in Clause 9.27.2.2.(1)(b) have been referred to as drainscreen assemblies.
A-9.27.2.1.(1) Minimizing Precipitation Ingress. The total prevention of precipitation ingress
into wall assemblies is difficult to achieve and, depending on the wall design and construction, may not be absolutely necessary. The amount of moisture that enters a wall, and the frequency with which this occurs, must be limited. The occurrence of ingress must be sufficiently rare, accumulation sufficiently small and drying sufficiently rapid to prevent the deterioration of moisture-susceptible materials and the growth of fungi.
A-9.27.2.2. Required Levels of Protection from Precipitation. Precursors to Part 9 and all editions of the NBC containing a Part 9 applying to housing and small buildings included a performance-based provision requiring that cladding provide protection from the weather for inboard materials. Industry requested that Part 9 provide additional guidance to assist in determining the minimum levels of protection from precipitation to be provided by cladding assemblies. As with all requirements in the NBC, the new requirements in Article 9.27.2.2. describe the minimum cladding assembly configuration. Designers must still consider local accepted good practice, demonstrated performance and the specific conditions to which a particular wall will be exposed when designing or selecting a cladding assembly.
Capillary Breaks
The properties that are necessary for a material or assembly to provide a capillary break, and quantitative values for those properties, have not been defined. Among the material properties that need to be addressed are water absorption and susceptibility to moisture-related deterioration. Among the assembly characteristics to be considered are bridging of spaces by water droplets, venting and drainage.
Clause 9.27.2.2.(1)(a) describes the capillary break configuration typical of open rainscreen construction. The minimum 10 mm will avoid bridging of the space by water droplets and allow some construction tolerance.
Clause 9.27.2.2.(1)(b) describes a variation on the typical open rainscreen configuration. Products used to provide the capillary break include a variety of non-moisture-susceptible, open-mesh materials.
Clause 9.27.2.2.(1)(c) describes a configuration that is typical of that provided by horizontal vinyl and metal siding, without contoured insulating backing. The air space behind the cladding components and the loose installation reduce the likelihood of moisture becoming trapped and promote drying by airflow.
Clause 9.27.2.2.(1)(d) recognizes the demonstrated performance of masonry cavity walls and masonry veneer walls.
Moisture Index
The moisture index (MI) for a particular location reflects both the wetting and drying characteristics of the climate and depends on
• annual rainfall, and
• thetemperatureandrelativehumidityoftheoutdoorambientair. MI values are derived from detailed research and calculations.
Due to a lack of definitive data, the MI values identified in Sentence 9.27.2.2.(5), which trigger exceptions to or additional precipitation protection, are based on expert opinion. Designers should consider local experience and demonstrated performance when selecting materials and assemblies for protection from precipitation. For further information on MI, see Appendix C.
A-9.27.3.1. Second Plane of Protection. As specified in Sentence 9.27.3.1.(1), the second plane of protection consists of a drainage plane with an appropriate material serving as the inner boundary and flashing to dissipate rainwater or meltwater to the exterior.
Drainage Plane
Except for masonry walls, the simplest configuration of a drainage plane is merely a vertical interface between materials that will allow gravity to draw the moisture down to the flashing to allow it to dissipate to the exterior. It does not necessarily need to be constructed as a clear drainage space (air space).
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-527
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-9.27.3.4.(2) Division B
For masonry walls, an open rainscreen assembly is required; that is, an assembly with first and second planes of protection where the drainage plane is constructed as a drained and vented air space. Such construction also constitutes best practice for walls other than masonry walls.
Section 9.20. requires drainage spaces of 25 mm for masonry veneer walls and 50 mm for cavity walls. In other than masonry walls, the drainage space in an open rainscreen assembly should be at least 10 mm deep. Drainage holes must be designed in conjunction with the flashing.
Sheathing Membrane
The sheathing membrane described in Article 9.27.3.2. is not a waterproof material. When installed to serve as the inner boundary of the second plane of protection, and when that plane of protection includes
a drainage space at least 10 mm deep, the performance of the identified sheathing membrane has been demonstrated to be adequate. This is because the material is expected to have to handle only a very small quantity of water that penetrates the first plane of protection.
If the 10 mm drainage space is reduced or interrupted, the drainage capacity and the capillary break provided by the space will be reduced. In these cases, the material selected to serve as the inner boundary may need to be upgraded to provide greater water resistance in order to protect moisture-susceptible materials in the backing wall.
Appropriate Level of Protection
It is recognized that many cladding assemblies with no space or with discontinuous space behind the cladding, and with the sheathing membrane material identified in Article 9.27.3.2., have provided acceptable performance with a range of precipitation loads imposed on them. Vinyl and metal strip siding, and shake and shingle cladding, for example, are installed with discontinuous drained spaces, and have demonstrated acceptable performance in most conditions. Lapped wood and composite strip sidings, depending on their profiles, may or may not provide discontinuous spaces, and generally provide little drainage. Cladding assemblies with limited drainage capability that use a sheathing membrane meeting the minimum requirements are not recommended where they may be exposed to high precipitation loads or where the level of protection provided by the cladding is unknown or questionable. Local practice with demonstrated performance should be considered. (See also Article 9.27.2.2. and Note A-9.27.2.2.)
A-9.27.3.4.(2) Detailing of Joints in Exterior Insulating Sheathing. The shape of a joint is critical to its ability to shed water. Tongue and groove, and lapped joints can shed water if oriented correctly. Butt joints can drain to either side and so should not be used unless they are sealed. However, detailing of joints requires attention not just to the shape of the joint but also to the materials that form the joint. For example, even if properly shaped, the joints in insulating sheathing with an integral sheathing membrane could not be expected to shed water if the insulating material absorbs water, unless the membrane extends through the joints.
A-9.27.3.5.(1) Sheathing Membranes in lieu of Sheathing. Article 9.23.17.1., Required Sheathing, indicates that sheathing must be installed only where the cladding requires intermediate fastening between supports (studs) or where the cladding requires a solid backing. Cladding such as brick or panels would be exempt from this requirement and in these cases a double layer of sheathing membrane would generally be needed. The exception (Article 9.27.3.6.) applies only to those types of cladding that provide a face seal to
the weather.
A-9.27.3.6. Sheathing Membrane under Face Sealed Cladding. The purpose of sheathing membrane on walls is to reduce air infiltration and to control the entry of wind-driven rain. Certain types of cladding consisting of very large sheets or panels with well-sealed joints will perform this function, eliminating the need for sheathing membrane. This is true of the metal cladding with lock-seamed joints sometimes used on mobile homes. However, it does not apply to metal or plastic siding applied in narrow strips which is intended to simulate the appearance of lapped wood siding. Such material does not act as a substitute for sheathing membrane since it incorporates provision for venting the wall cavity and has many loosely-fitted joints which cannot be counted on to prevent the entry of wind and rain.
Furthermore, certain types of sheathing systems can perform the function of the sheathing membrane. Where it can be demonstrated that a sheathing material is at least as impervious to air and water penetration as sheathing membrane and that its jointing system results in joints that are at least as impervious to air and water penetration as the material itself, sheathing membrane may be omitted.
9-528 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B A-9.27.3.8.(3)
A-9.27.3.8.(1) Required Flashing.
Horizontal Offsets
Where a horizontal offset in the cladding is provided by a single cladding element, there is no joint between the offset and the cladding above. In this case, and provided the cladding material on the offset provides effective protection for the construction below, flashing is not required.
Changes in Substrate
In certain situations, flashing should be installed at a change of substrate: for example, where stucco cladding is installed on a wood-frame assembly, extending down over a masonry or cast-in-place concrete foundation and applied directly to it. Such an application does not take into account the potential for shrinkage of the wood frame and cuts off the drainage route for moisture that may accumulate behind the stucco on the frame construction.
Figure A-9.27.3.8.(1)
Flashing at change in substrate
A-9.27.3.8.(3) Flashing over Curved-Head Openings. The requirement for flashing over openings depends on the vertical distance from the top of the trim over the opening to the bottom of the eave compared to the horizontal projection of the eave. In the case of curved-head openings, the vertical distance from the top of the trim increases as one moves away from the centre of the opening. For these openings, the top of the trim must be taken as the lowest height before the trim becomes vertical. (See Figure A-9.27.3.8.(3).)
Figure A-9.27.3.8.(3)
Flashing over curved-head openings
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-529
             flashing omitted
required flashing
wood-frame construction
          EG02061B
     bottom of eave
vertical distance from bottom of eave to top of trim
top of trim for curved-head openings
EC02062A
    © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-9.27.3.8.(4) Division B
A-9.27.3.8.(4) Flashing Configuration and Positive Drainage.
Flashing Configuration
A 6% slope is recognized as the minimum that will provide effective flashing drainage. The 10 mm vertical lap over the building element below and the 5 mm offset are prescribed to reduce transfer by capillarity and surface tension. Figure A-9.27.3.8.(4) illustrates two examples of flashing configurations.
Figure A-9.27.3.8.(4)
Examples of flashing configurations showing upstands, horizontal offsets and vertical laps
Maintaining Positive Slope
Sentence 9.27.3.8.(4) requires that the minimum 6% flashing slope remain after expected shrinkage of the building frame. Similarly, Sentence 9.26.3.1.(4) requires that a positive slope remain on roofs and similar constructions after expected shrinkage of the building frame.
For Part 9 wood-frame constructions, expected wood shrinkage can be determined based on the average equilibrium moisture content (MC) of wood, within the building envelope assembly, in various regions of the country (see Table A-9.27.3.8.(4)).
Regions
British Columbia and Atlantic Canada Ontario and Quebec
Prairies and the North
Notes to Table A-9.27.3.8.(4):
(1) CWC 2000, “Wood Reference Handbook.”
Equilibrium MC, %(1)
10 8 7
Table A-9.27.3.8.(4) Equilibrium Moisture Content for Wood Forming Part of Note A-9.32.3.1.(1)
For three-storey constructions to which Part 9 applies, cumulative longitudinal shrinkage is negligible. Shrinkage need only be calculated for horizontal framing members using the following formula (from CWC 1997, “Introduction to Wood Building Technology”):
Shrinkage = (total horizontal member height) x (initial MC - equilibrium MC) x (.002)
9-530 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
             50-mm upstand
10-mm lap over element below
5-mm offset
       EC02063A
      © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B A-9.27.11.1.(3) and (4)
A-9.27.3.8.(5) Protection against Precipitation Ingress at the Sill-to-Cladding Joint. Many windows are configured in such a way that a line of sealant is the only protection against water ingress at the sill-to-cladding joint—a location that is exposed to all of the water that flows down the window. In the past, many windows were constructed with self-flashing sills—sills that extend beyond the face of the cladding and have a drip on the underside to divert water away from the sill-to-cladding joint. This sill configuration was considered to be accepted good practice and is recognized today as providing a degree of redundancy in precipitation protection.
Self-flashing sills are sills that
• slopetowardtheexteriorwherethesillshaveanupwardfacingsurfacethatextendsbeyondthejambs,
• whereinstalledoveramasonrysill,extendnotlessthan25mmbeyondtheinnerfaceofthatsill,
• incorporateadrippositionednotlessthan5mmoutwardfromtheouterfaceofthecladdingbelowor
not less than 15 mm beyond the inner edge of a masonry sill, and
• terminateatthejambsor,wherethefaceofthejambsisnotatleastflushwiththefaceofthecladdingand
the sills extend beyond the jambs, incorporate end dams sufficiently high to protect against overflow in
wind-driven rain conditions.
A wind pressure of 10 Pa can raise water 1 mm. Thus, for example, if a window is exposed to a driving rain wind pressure of 200 Pa, end dams should be at least 20 mm high.
Figure A-9.27.3.8.(5)
Examples of configurations of self-flashing sills
A-9.27.4.2.(1) Selection and Installation of Sealants. Analysis of many sealant joint failures indicates that the majority of failures can be attributed to improper joint preparation and deficient installation of the sealant and various joint components. The following ASTM guidelines describe several aspects that should be considered when applying sealants in unprotected environments to achieve a durable application:
• ASTM C 1193, “Use of Joint Sealants,”
• ASTM C 1299, “Selection of Liquid-Applied Sealants,” and
• ASTMC1472,“CalculatingMovementandOtherEffectsWhenEstablishingSealantJointWidth.”
The sealant manufacturer’s literature should always be consulted for recommended procedures and materials.
A-9.27.9.2.(3) Grooves in Hardboard Cladding. Grooves deeper than that specified may be used in thicker cladding providing they do not reduce the thickness to less than the required thickness minus 1.5 mm. Thus for type 1 or 2 cladding, grooves must not reduce the thickness to less than 4.5 mm or 6 mm depending on method of support, or to less than 7.5 mm for type 5 material.
A-9.27.10.2.(2) Thickness of Grade O-2 OSB. In using Table 9.27.8.2. to determine the thickness of Grade O-2 OSB cladding, substitute “face orientation” for “face grain” in the column headings.
A-9.27.11.1.(3) and (4) Material Standards for Aluminum Cladding. Compliance with Sentence 9.27.11.1.(3) and CAN/CGSB-93.2-M, “Prefinished Aluminum Siding, Soffits, and Fascia, for Residential Use,” is required for aluminum siding that is installed in horizontal or vertical strips. Compliance with Sentence 9.27.11.1.(4) and CAN/CGSB-93.1-M, “Sheet, Aluminum Alloy, Prefinished, Residential,” is required for aluminum cladding that is installed in large sheets.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-531
   25-mm extension beyond inner face of masonry sill
6% slope
drip positioned 5 mm beyond cladding or 15 mm beyond inner face of masonry sill
             EG02064A
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-9.27.13.1.(1) Division B
A-9.27.13.1.(1) Geometrically Defined Drainage Cavity. “Geometrically defined drainage cavity” (GDDC) refers to the channels, grooves or profiles cut into the insulation backing of an EIFS panel for the purpose of providing a way for water that gets behind the system to drain out. The channels, grooves or profiles of one panel need to connect to the channels, grooves or profiles of adjacent panels in order for drainage to occur consistently and uniformly across the entire EIFS. While the size of a channel, groove or profile can be verified by inspecting a single panel, the intent of Sentence 9.27.13.1.(1) is that the required drainage capacity be achieved across the entire system.
Additional information on the design and installation of EIFS can be found in
• the“EIFSPracticeManual,”publishedbytheEIFSCouncilofCanada,and • the manufacturer’s literature.
Figure A-9.27.13.1.(1)
Geometrically defined drainage cavity
A-9.27.13.2.(2)(a) Substrates for Exterior Insulation Finish Systems. The list of acceptable substrates for each type of EIFS can be found in a system’s respective test report to CAN/ULC-S716.1, “Exterior Insulation and Finish Systems (EIFS) - Materials and Systems”; however, the following substrates are generally considered acceptable:
• minimum11mmthickexposure1OSBclassifiedasPS2exteriorwallsheathing
• minimum 11 mm thick exterior-rated plywood sheathing
• minimum12.7mmthickexteriorgypsumsheathingconformingtoASTMC1177/C1177M,“GlassMat
Gypsum Substrate for Use as Sheathing”
• cementitious panels
• fibre-cement panels
• concrete block
• clay masonry
• cast-in-place concrete
Note that, in some cases, the list of acceptable substrates may be limited by the EIFS manufacturer.
9-532 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
     10 mm 10 mm
groove width groove width width of insulated panel
∑groove width ≥ 13% insulated panel width
EG01378A
    © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B A-9.32.1.2.(2)
A-Table 9.28.4.3. Stucco Lath. Paper-backed welded wire lath may also be used on horizontal surfaces provided its characteristics are suitable for such application.
A-9.30.1.2.(1) Water Resistance. In some areas of buildings, water and other substances may frequently be splashed or spilled onto the floor. It is preferable, in such areas, that the finish flooring be a type that will not absorb moisture or permit it to pass through; otherwise, both the flooring itself and the subfloor beneath it may deteriorate. Also, particularly in food preparation areas and bathrooms, unsanitary conditions may be created by the absorbed moisture. Where absorbent or permeable flooring materials are used in these areas, they should be installed in such a way that they can be conveniently removed periodically for cleaning or replacement, i.e., they should not be glued or nailed down. Also, if the subfloor is a type that is susceptible
to moisture damage (this includes virtually all of the wood-based subfloor materials used in wood-frame construction), it should be protected by an impermeable membrane placed between the finish flooring and the subfloor. The minimum degree of impermeability required by Sentence 9.30.1.2.(1) would be provided by such materials as polyethylene, aluminum foil, and most single-ply roofing membranes (EPDM, PVC).
A-9.31.6.2.(3) Securement of Service Water Heaters.
Figure A-9.31.6.2.(3)
Securement of service water heater using strapping fastened to floor joists overhead
A-9.32.1.2.(2) Application of Subsection 9.32.3. and Ventilation of Houses Containing a Secondary Suite.
Ventilation for Smoke Control
The control of smoke transfer between dwelling units in a house with a secondary suite, or between the dwelling units and other spaces in the house, is a critical safety issue. Although providing a second ventilation system to serve the two dwelling units is expensive—and potentially difficult in an existing building—it is necessary to achieving a minimum acceptable level of fire safety.
Alternative solutions to providing separate ventilation systems for the dwelling units must address smoke control. Although smoke dampers restrict the spread of smoke by automatically closing in the event of a fire, their installation in a ventilation system that serves both dwelling units in a house with a secondary suite is not considered to be a workable solution because they are very expensive, require regular inspection and maintenance, and must be reset after every activation.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-533
               GC00383A
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-9.32.1.3.(2) Division B
Ventilation for Air Exchange
The provision of a ventilation system for the purpose of maintaining acceptable indoor air quality is
a critical health issue. However, Sentence 9.32.1.2.(3) allows exits and public corridors in houses with a secondary suite to be unventilated. Lack of active ventilation of these spaces is considered acceptable because occupants do not spend long periods of time there and because exits are somewhat naturally ventilated when doors are opened.
Considering the cost of installing separate ventilation systems, Sentence 9.32.1.2.(4) also exempts ancillary spaces in houses with a secondary suite from the requirement to be ventilated, provided that make-up air is supplied in accordance with Article 9.32.3.8.
A-9.32.1.3.(2) Venting of Laundry-Drying Equipment. Sentence 9.32.1.3.(2) applies to the piping and ducting located within the wall assembly and not to the often flexible duct used to connect the appliance to the rigid exhaust vent duct.
A-9.32.3. Heating-Season Mechanical Ventilation. For many years, houses were constructed without mechanical ventilation systems. They relied on natural air leakage through the building envelope for winter ventilation. However, houses have become progressively more airtight through the introduction of new products and practices, e.g., the substitution of panel sheathings, such as plywood and waferboard, for board sheathing, the replacement of paper-backed insulation batts with friction-fit batts and polyethylene film, improved caulking materials, and tighter windows and doors.
Following the energy crisis in the early 1970s, considerable emphasis was placed on reducing air leakage in order to conserve energy. Electric heating systems were encouraged and higher efficiency furnaces were developed, which further reduced air change rates in buildings. This led to concern that the natural air change in dwelling units might be insufficient in some instances to provide adequate indoor air quality. Condensation problems resulting from higher humidity levels were also a concern.
Evolution of NBC Ventilation Requirements
Mechanical ventilation requirements in the NBC have evolved from a simple requirement in the 1980 edition that exhaust fans be incorporated in electrically heated houses, through requirements in the 1985 and 1990 editions that all houses have mechanical ventilation systems capable of exchanging the indoor air for outdoor air at a specified rate: 0.5 air changes per hour in the 1985 edition and 0.3 air changes per hour in the 1990 edition.
The 1995 NBC addressed not only the overall air change rate created by the mechanical ventilation system but also the need to ensure that the outdoor air brought into the house by the system is distributed throughout the house.
Current Requirements
The current requirements are a further refinement. The ventilation systems described herein are essentially the same as those described in the 1995 NBC but additional provisions have been included with the following goals in mind:
• provisions that are easier to understand,
• reduced probability that outdoor air distributed through a forced-air heating system will be cool
enough to cause premature deterioration of the furnace heat exchanger, and
• reducedprobabilitythattheventilationsystemwillcauseexcessivedepressurizationofthedwelling
unit.
To some extent, the first of these goals conflicts with the other two and its achievement has suffered accordingly. Only in the manner of determining the capacity of the principal ventilation fan [see Sentence 9.32.3.3.(2)] has any significant simplification been achieved.
See also Note A-9.32.3.3.(2).
A-9.32.3.1.(1) Required Ventilation.
Performance Approach [Clause 9.32.3.1.(1)(a)]
CAN/CSA-F326-M, “Residential Mechanical Ventilation Systems,” is a comprehensive performance standard. It gives experienced ventilation system designers the flexibility to design a variety of residential ventilation systems that satisfy those requirements.
9-534 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B A-9.32.3.3.
Prescriptive Approach [Clause 9.32.3.1.(1)(b)]
The prescriptively described systems are intended to provide a level of performance approaching that provided by systems complying with CAN/CSA-F326-M, “Residential Mechanical Ventilation Systems.”. They are included in the NBC for use by those less experienced in ventilation system design. Code users who do not find these prescriptively described systems satisfactory for their purposes, or who find them too restrictive, are free to use any other type of ventilation system that satisfies the performance requirements of CAN/CSA-F326-M.
A-9.32.3.3. Principal Ventilation System. The principal ventilation system circulates air throughout the house for the purpose of maintaining acceptable indoor air quality. Each ventilation system has three main components:
• indoor air exhaust • outdoor air supply • distribution of air
Indoor Air Exhaust
The principal ventilation fan must be capable of drawing air from throughout the dwelling unit and exhausting it to the outdoors. Though actual usage will be determined by the occupants, the fan must be capable of continuous operation. Unfortunately, there is no standard method of testing and designating fans for continuous use. Therefore, such a designation is not a mandatory requirement [see Sentence 9.32.3.3.(4)].
Supplemental exhaust fans, such as kitchen cooktop hoods and bathroom fans, provide more ventilation at point of source when needed (see Article 9.32.3.7. and Note A-9.32.3.7.).
Outdoor Air Supply
Outdoor air is brought into a house either through a supply duct in the exterior wall or, in exhaust-only systems, by leaks through the building envelope.
Distribution of Air
There are two approaches to ensuring air is distributed to all parts of the house:
• inforcedairheatingsystems,thefurnacecirculationfanmovestheairthroughheatingdistribution
ducts (see Note A-9.32.3.4.),
• in non-forced air heating systems, a supply fan circulates air through dedicated ventilation
distribution ducts (see Note A-9.32.3.5.).
Figures A-9.32.3.3.-A to A-9.32.3.3.-F show possible configurations of principal ventilation systems. However, even within these prescriptive solutions, a significant degree of flexibility is available. The configurations illustrated should therefore not be regarded as the only configurations acceptable under Sentence 9.32.3.1.(2).
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-535
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-9.32.3.3. Division B
Figure A-9.32.3.3.-A
Possible configuration of a ventilation system coupled with a forced air heating system
Note to Figure A-9.32.3.3.-A:
(1) Theoutdoorairsupplyductshallbeconnectednotlessthan3mupstreamoftheplenumconnectiontothefurnace.
9-536 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
       principal ventilation fan suitable for continuous use
bathroom exhaust fan intended for intermittent use
            kitchen exhaust fan intended for intermittent use
make-up air fan
normal heating ducts
make-up air fan
outdoor air duct
              manual control interlocked to make-up air fan
        manual control interlocked to make-up air fan
  manual or combined manual/automatic control interlocked to furnace fan
 return air plenum
adjustable damper
    EG00194B
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B A-9.32.3.3.
Figure A-9.32.3.3.-B
Possible configuration of a ventilation system using a heat recovery ventilator coupled with a forced air heating system
Notes to Figure A-9.32.3.3.-B:
(1) Theoutdoorairsupplyductshallbeconnectednotlessthan3mupstreamoftheplenumconnectiontothefurnace. (2) TheHRVsupplyinletandexhaustoutletshallbeseparatedbyadistanceofnotlessthan900mm.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-537
      bathroom exhaust fan intended for intermittent use
          kitchen exhaust fan intended for intermittent use
make-up air fans
normal heating ducts
supply fan
principal ventilation fan
          manual control interlocked to make-up air fan
     manual control interlocked to make-up air fan
  manual or combined manual/automatic control for heat recovery ventilator interlocked
to furnace fan
return air plenum
  adjustable dampers
heat recovery ventilator (HRV)
       EG00202C
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-9.32.3.3. Division B
Figure A-9.32.3.3.-C
Possible configuration of a ventilation system not coupled with a forced air heating system
Note to Figure A-9.32.3.3.-C:
(1) Theoutdoorairsupplyductshallbeconnectednotlessthan3mupstreamoftheplenumconnectiontothefurnace.
9-538 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
      bathroom exhaust fan intended for intermittent use
principal ventilation fan suitable for continuous use
      high outlets
   kitchen exhaust fan intended for intermittent use
make-up air fans
duct heater
outdoor air duct
             manual control interlocked to make-up air fan
       manual control interlocked to make-up air fan
  manual or combined manual/automatic control interlocked
to supply fan and principal ventilation fan
ventilation ducts
   supply fan
ventilation ducts
   adjustable damper
thermostatic control
   EG00201B
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B A-9.32.3.3.
Figure A-9.32.3.3.-D
Possible configuration of a ventilation system using a heat recovery ventilator not coupled with a forced air heating system
Note to Figure A-9.32.3.3.-D:
(1) TheHRVsupplyinletandexhaustoutletshallbeseparatedbyadistanceofnotlessthan900mm.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-539
      bathroom exhaust fan intended for intermittent use
        kitchen exhaust fan intended for intermittent use
make-up air fans
supply fan
principal ventilation fan
EG00270C
              manual control interlocked to make-up air fan
       manual control interlocked to make-up air fan
high outlets
manual or combined manual/automatic control for heat recovery ventilator
ventilation ducts
     adjustable heat recovery dampers ventilator (HRV)
      © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-9.32.3.3. Division B
9-540
Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Figure A-9.32.3.3.-E
Ventilation system coupled with a forced air heating system and using a dual-capacity principal ventilation fan to eliminate the need for supplemental fans
Notes to Figure A-9.32.3.3.-E:
(1) Themake-upairfanoperateswhenthePVFoperatesat2.5timestherequiredcapacity.
(2) Theoutdoorairsupplyductshallbeconnectednotlessthan3mupstreamoftheplenumconnectiontothefurnace.
       principal ventilation fan (PVF) capable of operating at
2.5 times the required minimum capacity
high-speed control interlocked to make-up air fan
make-up air fan capable of operating at 1.5 times the required minimum capacity of the PVF(1)
                         outdoor air duct
  bathroom
     kitchen
manual or combined manual/automatic control interlocked to furnace fan
 adjustable damper
    EG02068A
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B A-9.32.3.3.
Figure A-9.32.3.3.-F
Ventilation system coupled with a forced air heating system and using a heat recovery ventilator as the principal ventilation fan to eliminate the need for supplemental fans
Notes to Figure A-9.32.3.3.-F:
(1) Theoutdoorairsupplyductshallbeconnectednotlessthan3mupstreamoftheplenumconnectiontothefurnace. (2) TheHRVsupplyinletandexhaustoutletshallbeseparatedbyadistanceofnotlessthan900mm.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-541
           bathroom
      kitchen
heat recovery ventilator (HRV)
manual or combined manual/automatic control for heat recovery ventilator interlocked to furnace fan
                     HRV fans capable of operating at 2.5 times the required capacity of the principal ventilation fan
 adjustable dampers
EG02067A
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-9.32.3.3.(2) Division B
A-9.32.3.3.(2) Normal Operating Exhaust Capacity. The principal ventilation fan operates at
a rate known as the “normal operating exhaust capacity.” This rate is intended to be suitable for use on a continuous basis at any time that an ongoing, background level of ventilation is needed, e.g. the late fall or early spring when air leakage driven by wind and inside/outside temperature differences is lowest but it is too cold to rely on open windows.
The capacity of the principal ventilation fan is determined on the basis of the number of bedrooms in the house rather than on the basis of some fraction of the house volume, as in previous editions of the NBC. This is because the amount of ventilation required is related to the activities of people, and the number of people in the house is usually related to the number of bedrooms rather than to the size of the house. It should be emphasized that this air change rate refers to the installed capacity of the system, not to the rate of ventilation that is actually used in the house.
In many households, ventilating even at the background rate would provide more ventilation than required, resulting in unnecessarily high heating bills and perhaps excessively low indoor relative humidity. Thus, although a system with the minimum capacity must be installed, it can incorporate controls that allow the system to be used at less than its full capacity most of the time.
A maximum is set for the capacity of the principal ventilation fan because, if it were to be much larger than the ventilation needs of the household, it might never be used. The principal ventilation fan is intended to provide a relatively low level of ventilation such that it can be run continuously without too much noise and without serious energy penalty. If the installed capacity exceeds the minimum by a large margin and the fan flow cannot be reduced, there is increased probability that the fan will not be used at all, thus defeating the purpose of having it in the first place. Sentence 9.32.3.3.(2) therefore places limits on oversizing.
A-9.32.3.3.(3) Required Controls. The principal ventilation fan must incorporate controls that allow it to be turned off. There are four main types of controls used in residential applications:
(a) Manualon-offswitch:Thisisthesimplestformofcontrolbut,whileacceptable,itisnotthebestmeansof maintaining indoor air quality. Occupants may turn the system off and forget to turn it back on, or may turn it off to save on heating bills or to reduce noise, not realizing the importance of proper ventilation.
(b) Dehumidistat: A dehumidistat automatically activates the ventilation system in response to rising humidity. Humidity is often the main reason why ventilation is required, but not always. Depending on the activities of the occupants and the relative strengths of other sources of pollutants and humidity, the amount of ventilation required to control humidity may not be enough to control other pollutants.
(c) Carbon Dioxide Sensor: Ventilation systems in large buildings are sometimes controlled by carbon dioxide (CO2) sensors and this technology is just beginning to be available on a residential scale. Increasing CO2 concentration is usually a good indication of decreasing air quality. But even this form of control may not be satisfactory in cases where there are unusual pollutants, such as those generated by certain hobbies.
(d) Periodic Cycling Control: Devices are available that cause the furnace circulation fan to operate at user-set intervals if the thermostat does not call for heat. If such a device were wired so that it turns on the principal ventilation fan as well as the furnace circulation fan, it would satisfy the requirements of Article 9.32.3.4. However, if it were wired to only operate the furnace circulation fan in a system designed to Article 9.32.3.4., at times the principal ventilation fan would operate without the furnace circulation fan. Since such systems rely on the furnace circulation fan drawing in outdoor air to balance the exhaust flow through the principal ventilation fan, this would result in the exhaust flow not being balanced and the dwelling being depressurized. This configuration would therefore not be acceptable.
A-9.32.3.3.(5) Location of Controls. The intent of the requirement to locate the controls in the living area is to have them easily accessible to the occupants, rather than in a little used room or unfinished basement, for example.
Installers should consider marking the manual switch with an icon depicting a fan as well as the words “Ventilation Fan.”
A-9.32.3.3.(10) Location of Exhaust Air Intakes. Where the kitchen or a bathroom is chosen as the location for the air intake of the principal ventilation fan, the intake must be positioned high enough to capture contaminants, warm moist air, and hot gases, which tend to rise and stratify near the ceiling. These restrictions prevent the use of a cooktop exhaust or hood fan as the principal ventilation fan.
9-542 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B A-9.32.3.4.
A-9.32.3.4. Ventilation Systems Used in Conjunction with Forced Air Heating
Systems. Coupling a ventilation system with a forced air heating system to provide the necessary distribution of outdoor air is relatively simple. A duct brings air from outdoors to the heating system’s return air plenum. Whenever the principal ventilation fan is activated, the furnace fan is automatically activated
to distribute the outdoor air [see Sentence 9.32.3.4.(9)]. Where no auxiliary supply fan is installed as per Sentence 9.32.3.4.(8), the furnace fan also drives the flow of outdoor air in through the outdoor air duct. Use of an auxiliary supply fan allows the size of the outdoor air supply duct to be reduced.
This system tempers the outdoor air before it reaches occupied areas of the house by mixing it with return
air in the furnace’s return air plenum. It is important that thorough mixing occur before the cold air reaches the furnace’s heat exchanger, otherwise condensation could reduce the service life of the heat exchanger.
The 3-m minimum distance between the furnace and the outdoor air duct connection is one means of addressing this concern. However, a well designed mixing device is likely to be more effective, as are certain arrangements of the outdoor air duct’s connection to the return air plenum. Figures A-9.32.3.4.-A, A-9.32.3.4.-B, and A-9.32.3.4.-C illustrate one such device and arrangements that have been shown to be effective in research carried out by Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation (“Testing of Fresh Air Mixing Devices,” IRTA Research for Research Division of CMHC, March 1993).
Figure A-9.32.3.4.-A Simple air mixing device
Figure A-9.32.3.4.-B
Outdoor air duct directly connected to drop plenum – inner side of corner
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Division B
9-543
       Compress disk to cruciform
Size to fit duct
area of opening should equal area of outdoor air duct
outdoor air
Fit over elbow pointing downstream in return air plenum
   return air
    EG00297A
          Terminate outdoor air duct just past inner radius, flush with surface
 EG00298A
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-9.32.3.4. Division B
Figure A-9.32.3.4.-C
Outdoor air duct directly connected to drop plenum – outer side of corner
Even if the outdoor air is well mixed with the return air, in very cold weather the resulting mixed air temperature could still be lower than what the furnace heat exchanger can tolerate if there is too much outdoor air. That is why Article 9.32.3.4. includes several provisions, including Table 9.32.3.4. and the requirement to actually measure the outdoor airflow [see Sentence 9.32.3.4.(10)], to guard against this possibility. In some cases, it will not be possible to use the forced air heating system to circulate the outdoor air unless additional heating devices are used to temper the outdoor air before it reaches the furnace heat exchanger. This would be the case, for example, in a highly insulated house with a small furnace that is located in a very cold region.
The maximum outdoor airflow permitted by Table 9.32.3.4. must equal or exceed the “normal operating exhaust capacity” of the principal ventilation fan, as determined in accordance with Sentence 9.32.3.3.(2); otherwise there is an increased possibility that the mixed airflow over the furnace heat exchanger in cold weather will be colder than what the heat exchanger can tolerate. No values are listed in Table 9.32.3.4. when the maximum flow permitted exceeds the maximum capacity found in Table 9.32.3.3. since no higher outdoor airflow is required to match the flow of the principal ventilation fan.
Sentence 9.32.3.3.(9) is intended to avoid having the principal ventilation fan exhaust the outdoor air brought in through the outdoor air supply duct before it is circulated to the dwelling. The design of some advanced integrated mechanical systems is such that some portion of the outdoor air is exhausted before being circulated but this is taken into account in the design of the system and the total amount of outdoor air brought in is adjusted accordingly. This provision is not intended to preclude the use of such systems.
The duct bringing outdoor air to the furnace return air plenum must be equipped with a manual damper [see Sentence 9.32.3.4.(6)] that is adjusted [see Sentence 9.32.3.4.(10)] to balance the outdoor airflow with the flow through the principal ventilation fan. It is recommended, but not mandatory, that a motorized damper also be installed in this duct and that it be wired to be fully open when the principal ventilation fan is operating and fully closed when the principal ventilation fan is not operating. This damper will allow ventilation to occur only when the occupants have called for it by turning the “Ventilation Fan” switch to “on.” The absence of such a damper can lead to unwanted ventilation, which can result, in turn, in excessive dryness and increased heating costs in winter, and increased loading on air-conditioning equipment in the summer.
9-544 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
       Terminate outdoor air duct just past outer radius, with hood cut at approximately 45° pointing downstream
EG00299A
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B A-9.32.3.8.
A-9.32.3.5. Ventilation Systems Not Used in Conjunction with Forced Air Heating Systems. If there is no forced air heating system or if, for some reason, the heating system is not used to distribute the outdoor air, then a special air distribution system must be installed. Because such a system only handles ventilation air and not heating distribution air, smaller ducts can generally be used and the supply fan is quite a bit smaller than a normal furnace circulation fan. Sentences 9.32.3.5.(2) to (7) require that the supply fan operate at the same time and at the same rate as the principal ventilation fan in order to avoid either pressurizing or depressurizing the house. Pressurizing the house can lead to interstitial condensation within the building envelope. Depressurization can lead to the spillage of combustion products from heating equipment and increased entry of soil gas.
Tempering of Outdoor Air
The system described in Article 9.32.3.5. requires that the outdoor air be tempered before being circulated to the occupied areas of the house [see Sentence 9.32.3.5.(8)]. Tempering can be accomplished by passing the outdoor air over some type of heating element or by mixing it with indoor air. However, the latter approach is more complex, since it requires that the ratio between the outdoor air and indoor air ducts or openings be neither too large nor too small. It was judged to be too complex to include within the context of these prescriptive requirements. Therefore, where tempering by mixing with indoor air is chosen, the system must be designed in accordance with CAN/CSA-F326-M, “Residential Mechanical Ventilation Systems.”
Distribution of Outdoor Air
Whereas a duct system associated with a forced air heating system would have ducts leading to almost all rooms, the requirements for these ventilation systems are more limited [see Sentences 9.32.3.5.(10) to (14)]. The most important point is that outdoor air must be provided to each bedroom; people often spend long periods of time in the bedroom with the door closed. It is also required that at least one duct lead to every storey, including the basement.
In houses where there is no storey without a bedroom (e.g. bungalows with no basement), a duct must lead to the principal living area. Where there is more than one area that could be considered as a “living area,” at least one such area must be designated as the “principal living area.”
There is also the alternative of locating one of the exhaust air intakes for the principal ventilation fan in the principal living area, rather than supplying outdoor air directly to it; in this arrangement, the outdoor air will pass through the principal living area on its way to the exhaust fan. However, this arrangement will be less effective if only a small portion of the exhaust is withdrawn from the principal living area; thus, there is a limitation on the number of other exhaust air intakes for the principal ventilation fan [see Sentence 9.32.3.5.(11)].
A-9.32.3.7. Supplemental Exhaust. CAN/CSA-F326-M, “Residential Mechanical Ventilation Systems,” requires a certain amount of exhaust from kitchens to capture pollutants at the source. When the principal ventilation fan air intake is located in the kitchen but is connected to multiple inlets, there will not be enough exhaust from the kitchen. Therefore, a separate kitchen exhaust fan is required in this circumstance as well.
The bathroom is another possible location for an air intake of a principal ventilation fan. As with the kitchen, if this option is not chosen, a separate bathroom exhaust fan must be installed [see Sentence 9.32.3.7.(4)].
Supplemental exhaust fans, which in most instances are located in kitchens and bathrooms, are required to be coupled to supply fans of similar capacity. The make-up air is necessary so that operation of the supplementary exhaust fan(s) will not depressurize the house [see Sentence 9.32.3.8.(2)]. See also Note A-9.32.3.8.
A-9.32.3.8. Protection against Depressurization. When an exhaust device extracts air from a house and there are no provisions for the introduction of outdoor air, such as by means of an outdoor air duct as required by Articles 9.32.3.4. and 9.32.3.5., and no supply fans are operating simultaneously, the exhausted
air will automatically be replaced by outdoor air that has infiltrated through the house’s building envelope. The rate of inward leakage will automatically equal the rate of outward extraction: otherwise the house would eventually implode. The instant the exhaust device is turned on, the house pressure is lowered and the inside/outside pressure difference drives outdoor air in through any leaks it can find. See Figure A-9.32.3.8.-A.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-545
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-9.32.3.8. Division B
Figure A-9.32.3.8.-A
Outdoor air drawn through a leaky envelope
Even if the house is made more airtight, the inward leakage will equal the outward fan flow. However, because there are fewer and/or smaller leakage sites in an airtight house, it will take a larger inside/outside pressure difference to drive the same amount of air through the remaining leakage sites. See Figure A-9.32.3.8.-B.
9-546 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
       exhaust fan
               air leakage
air leakage
air leakage
air leakage
EG02045A
  © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B A-9.32.3.8.
Figure A-9.32.3.8.-B
Outdoor air drawn through a tighter envelope
It is possible that the exhaust device will no longer be able to achieve its rated flow when operating against a very high inside/outside pressure difference. However, in this case, the inward flow will also decrease and will still be in equilibrium with the outward flow, but now at a higher inside/outside pressure difference than in a leakier house.
An exhaust device not operated in conjunction with a supply fan will always depressurize a house to some extent—even a leaky house. But it will depressurize a tight house more than it will depressurize a leaky house. And, of course, an exhaust device with a higher capacity will depressurize a house more than a device with a smaller capacity.
Spillage of Combustion Products
Depressurization of the house by the ventilation system or other exhaust devices can cause the spillage
of combustion products from certain types of combustion appliances. The types of appliances that are susceptible to pressure-induced spillage can generally be identified by the fact that they are vented through a natural draft chimney rather than through an arrangement that uses a fan to draw the products of combustion out of the house. Naturally aspirated gas furnaces with draft hoods and oil furnaces with barometric dampers are examples of spillage-susceptible appliances.
On the other hand, some gas furnaces with induced draft venting systems and the “sealed combustion” oil furnaces commonly used in mobile homes, are more resistant to spillage. Terms used in gas appliance standards to describe categories of spillage-resistant appliances include “direct-vented” and “side-wall-vented.”
Almost all fireplaces are spillage-susceptible, even those with so called “airtight” glass doors and outside combustion air intakes, since most “airtight” doors are not really airtight. Certain types of gas combustion appliances, such as cooking appliances and “decorative appliances,” are not required to be vented. Their operation will not be significantly affected by depressurization of the house.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-547
       exhaust fan
            air leakage
air leakage
  EG02046A
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-9.32.3.9. Division B
The NBC addresses the potential for spillage from combustion appliances with requirements for: • makeup air, and
• carbon monoxide alarms.
Makeup Air Requirements
Depressurization caused by the principal ventilation system itself is not an issue in houses with balanced systems (that is, non-exhaust-only systems). However, the operation of other exhaust devices, such as stove-top barbecues, can cause depressurization. Therefore, in a house with spillage-susceptible appliances, any such exhaust devices, including the required supplemental exhaust fans, must be provided with makeup air [see Sentence 9.32.3.8.(2)].
In the past, the NBC and other codes and standards have tended to rely on the passive supply of makeup air through makeup air openings. This is no longer considered to be a reliable approach in the context of a simple, prescriptively described system without sophisticated controls on depressurization. Therefore, the makeup air must be provided by a supply fan that is automatically activated whenever the exhaust device that requires the makeup air is activated [see Sentences 9.32.3.8.(2) and (3)].
The need for makeup air can be avoided by not using spillage-susceptible combustion equipment.
Carbon Monoxide Alarm Requirements for Solid-Fuel-Burning Appliances
Even at a relatively low level of depressurization, certain open-type solid-fuel-burning appliances, such
as fireplaces, or even closed-type solid-fuel-burning appliances whose stoking doors are left open,
can spill products of combustion into the house when operating in their “die down” or smouldering stages. In the absence of more sophisticated design and installation controls to prevent such levels of depressurization (such as those mentioned in CAN/CSA-F326-M, “Residential Mechanical Ventilation Systems,” the only available safeguard is to require the installation of a carbon monoxide (CO) alarm
in any room incorporating a solid-fuel-burning device [see Sentence 9.32.3.9.(3)]. Where this is not acceptable, the prescriptively described alternatives must be abandoned and a system fully complying with CAN/CSA-F326-M must be designed.
One advantage of solid-fuel-burning devices is that their spillage is readily detected by a carbon monoxide alarm (which is not true of gas- or oil-burning devices). Therefore, where this is the only type of spillage-susceptible combustion device present, one has the choice of not providing makeup air for exhaust devices [see Sentence 9.32.3.8.(6)]: the carbon monoxide alarm required by Sentence 9.32.3.9.(3) will warn occupants when depressurization is causing spillage.
Battery-operated carbon monoxide alarms are permitted, but they must be mechanically fixed to a surface. See also Note A-9.32.3.9.
A-9.32.3.9. Carbon Monoxide Alarms. Carbon monoxide (CO) is a colourless, odourless gas that can build up to lethal concentrations in an enclosed space without the occupants being aware of it. Thus, where an enclosed space incorporates or is near a potential source of CO, it is prudent to provide some means of detecting its presence.
Dwelling units have two common potential sources of CO:
• fuel-firedspace-orwater-heatingequipmentwithinthedwellingunitorinadjacentspaceswithinthe
building, and
• attached storage garages.
Most fuel-fired heating appliances do not normally produce CO and, even if they do, it is normally conveyed outside the building by the appliance’s venting system. Nevertheless, appliances can malfunction and venting systems can fail. Therefore, the provision of appropriately placed CO alarms in the dwelling unit is a relatively low-cost back-up safety measure.
Similarly, although Article 9.10.9.16. requires that the walls and floor/ceiling assemblies separating attached garages from dwelling units incorporate an air barrier system, there have been several instances of CO from garages being drawn into houses, which indicates that a fully gas-tight barrier is difficult to achieve. The likelihood of preventing the entry of all CO is decreased if the dwelling unit is depressurized in relation to the garage. This can readily occur due to the operation of exhaust equipment or simply due to the stack effect created by heating the dwelling unit. Again, CO alarms in the dwelling unit provide a relatively low-cost back-up safety measure.
See also Note A-9.32.3.8.
9-548 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B A-9.33.6.13.
A-9.32.3.10. Fans. The principal ventilation fan is intended to be run for long periods. Even the supplemental exhaust fans may be used for significant periods. Therefore, all fans that are mounted such that their sound is likely to intrude on the household, other than kitchen exhaust fans, are required to have reasonably low sound ratings so that building occupants will not turn them off before the need for ventilation has been met.
A-9.32.3.11. Ducts. Table 9.32.3.11.-A is based on the data listed in Table 9, “Friction Chart for Round Ducts,” Chapter 32, of the ASHRAE 1997, “ASHRAE Handbook – Fundamentals,”. The allowable duct lengths listed in the Table have been calculated assuming the “equivalent lengths” of ducts are four times their physical lengths. The static pressure offset to account for building pressures is 10 Pa. Using Table 9.32.3.11.-A will generally result in very conservatively sized (i.e. larger) ducts compared to what would be achieved using the normal duct design procedures referenced in Subsection 9.33.4.
A-9.32.3.12. Heat Recovery Ventilators. Enthalpy recovery ventilators (ERVs) are a type of heat recovery ventilator and must therefore comply with the requirements of Article 9.32.3.12.
A-9.33.1.1.(2) Combustion Air and Tight Houses. The operation of an air exhaust system or of a fuel-burning appliance removes the air from a house, creating a slight negative pressure inside. In certain cases the natural flow of air up a chimney can be reversed, leading to a possible danger of carbon monoxide poisoning for the inhabitants.
Newer houses are generally more tightly constructed than older ones because of improved construction practices, including tighter windows, weather stripping and caulking. This fact increases the probability
that infiltration may not be able to supply enough air to compensate for simultaneous operation of exhaust fans, fireplaces, clothes dryers, furnaces and space heaters. It is necessary, therefore, to introduce outdoor
air to the space containing the fuel-burning appliance. Information regarding combustion air requirements
for various types of appliances can be found in the installation standards referenced in Sentences 6.2.1.5.(1) and 9.33.5.2.(1). In the case of solid-fuel-burning stoves, ranges and space heaters, CSA B365, “Installation Code for Solid-Fuel-Burning Appliances and Equipment,” suggests that the minimum size of openings be determined by trial and error to accommodate the flue characteristics, the firing rate, the building characteristics, etc., and that, as a guide, the combustion air opening should be 0.5 times the flue collar area.
Further information can be found in CBD 222, “Airtight Houses and Carbon Monoxide Poisoning,” which is available from NRC.
A-9.33.4.3.(1) Heating System Controls. Where a single heating system serves two dwelling units and common spaces in a house with a secondary suite, it must be possible for the occupants to control the temperature in their own suites. Sentence 9.33.4.3.(1), which applies only to electric, fuel-fired or unitary heaters and hydronic heating systems, specifies that separate temperature controls must be provided in each dwelling unit in a house with a secondary suite; however, the controls for shared spaces may be located
in those spaces or in one of the suites.
A-9.33.5.3. Design, Construction and Installation Standard for Solid-Fuel-Burning Appliances. CSA B365, “Installation Code for Solid-Fuel-Burning Appliances and Equipment,” is essentially an installation standard, and covers such issues as accessibility, air for combustion and ventilation, chimney and venting, mounting and floor protection, wall and ceiling clearances, installation of ducts, pipes, thimbles and manifolds, and control and safety devices. But the standard also includes a requirement that solid-fuel-burning appliances and equipment satisfy the requirements of one of a series of standards, depending on the appliance or equipment, therefore also making it a design and construction standard. It is required that cooktops and ovens as well as stoves, central furnaces and other space heaters be designed and built in conformity with the relevant referenced standard.
A-9.33.6.13. Return Air System. It is a common practice to introduce outdoor air to the house by means of an outdoor air duct connected to the return air plenum of a forced air furnace. This is an effective method and is a component of one method of satisfying the mechanical ventilation requirements of Subsection 9.32.3. However, some caution is required. If the proportion of cold outside to warm return air is too high, the resulting mixed air temperature could lead to excessive condensation in the furnace heat exchanger and possible premature failure of the heat exchanger. CAN/CSA-F326-M, “Residential Mechanical Ventilation Systems,” requires that this mixed air temperature not be below 15.5°C when the outdoor temperature is at the January 2.5% value. It is also important that the outdoor air and the return air mix thoroughly before reaching the heat exchanger. Note A-9.32.3. provides some guidance on this.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 9-549
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-9.33.10.2.(1) Division B
A-9.33.10.2.(1) Factory-Built Chimneys. Under the provisions of Article 1.2.1.1. of Division A, certain solid-fuel-burning appliances may be connected to factory-built chimneys other than those specified in Sentence 9.33.10.2.(1) if tests show that the use of such a chimney will provide an equivalent level of safety.
A-9.34.2. Lighting Outlets. The “Canadian Electrical Code, Part I” contains requirements relating
to lighting that are similar to those in the NBC. However, the Electrical Code requirements apply only to residential occupancies, whereas many of the requirements in the NBC apply to all Part 9 buildings. Code users must therefore be careful to ensure that all applicable provisions of the NBC are followed, irrespective of the limitations in the Electrical Code.
9-550 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
Part 10
Existing Buildings under Alteration, Maintenance or Repair
10.1. General
10.1.1. Application ...................................... 10-1
10.2. Application Conditions
10.2.1. Calculation of Building Height ...... 10-1
10.2.2. Provisions Applicable to
Maintenance, Repairs or
Alteration Work ............................... 10-1
10.3. Fire Protection, Occupant Safety and
Accessibility
10.3.1. General ............................................ 10-2
10.3.2. Fire Safety in Buildings ................. 10-3
10.3.3. Safety within Floor Areas .............. 10-6
10.3.4. Exit Requirements .......................... 10-7
10.3.5. Vertical Transportation .................. 10-9
10.3.6. Service Facilities ............................ 10-9
10.3.7. Health Requirements ..................... 10-9
10.3.8. Barrier-Free Design ........................ 10-9
10.4. Structural Design
10.4.1. Structural Loads and
Procedures .................................... 10-10
10.5. Environmental Separation
10.5.1. Exclusion ...................................... 10-11
10.6. Heating, Ventilation and Air-conditioning
10.6.1. General .......................................... 10-11
10.7. Plumbing Systems
10.7.1. General .......................................... 10-11
10.8. Reserved
10.9. Housing and Small Buildings
10.9.1. Structural Requirements and Barrier-Free Design ...................... 10-12
10.9.2. Means of Egress ........................... 10-12
10.9.3. Fire Protection .............................. 10-13
10.10. Objectives and Functional Statements
10.10.1. Objectives and Functional
Statements .................................... 10-14
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Notes to Part 10 ............ 10-17
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Division B
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
Part 10
Existing Buildings under Alteration, Maintenance or Repair
Section 10.1. General
10.1.1. 10.1.1.1.
10.1.1.2.
Application Application of Part 10
1) The scope of this Part shall be as described in Article 1.3.3.1. of Division A. Definitions
1) Words that appear in italics are defined in Section 1.4. of Division A. Section 10.2. Application Conditions
10.2.1. 10.2.1.1.
Calculation of Building Height Determination of the first storey
1) For the purposes of this Part, the reference level for determining the first storey used to establish the building height or to determine if a building is a high building, shall be
10.2.2. 10.2.2.1.
10.2.2.2.
Provisions Applicable to Maintenance, Repairs or Alteration Work
Maintenance or Repair Work
1) Maintenance or repair work performed on a building, part of a building, or an element thereof, and on an appliance, equipment, system, or facility covered by the NBC shall be performed so as to maintain or restore it in good condition without altering its characteristics or functions. (See Note A-10.2.2.1.(1).)
Alterations
1) The NBC applies
a) except as provided in Sentences (2) and (3) and the provisions of this Part,
a)
b) c)
for any building built before 1 December 1976, the level of the ground adjacent to the existing principal entrance, unless an alteration modifies more than 50% of the floor areas of the building and the alteration involves the change of its structural elements when rebuilding,
for any building built from 1 December 1976, the grade as defined by
the standard applicable during the construction of the building (see
Note A-10.2.1.1.(1)b)), or
for any building, regardless of the year of construction, the average finished ground levels around the building, excluding entrances.
to every alteration of a building or part of a building, including the design
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 10-1
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 10.3.1.1.
Division B
10.3.1. 10.3.1.1.
General
Separation of Major Occupancies
1) Except as provided in Sentence (2), a fire separation that separates the altered part from another occupancy shall have a fire-resistance rating determined according to Subsection 3.1.7. and conform to Article 3.1.3.1.
2) Except for combustible buildings designed according to Article 3.2.2.50.
or 3.2.2.58., or according to Sentence 3.2.2.50.(3) or 3.2.2.57.(3) of NBC 2010 am. Quebec, or according to “Construction d’habitations en bois de 5 ou 6 étages, Directives et guide explicatif - Gouvernement du Québec 2013” or “Mass timber buildings of up to 12 storeys - Directives and Explanatory Guide - Gouvernement du Québec 2015,” the fire-resistance rating, measured on the unaltered side, is permitted to be
a) less than the required fire-resistance rating, without being less than 45 min, if the fire separation between the two occupancies must have a fire-resistance rating more than 1 h, or
b) less than the required fire-resistance rating, without being less than the more stringent provisions of the Safety Code (chapter B-1.1, r. 3), Chapter VIII, Buildings, if the fire separation must have a fire-resistance rating not more than 1 h or in the case of a minor alteration.
Combustible and Noncombustible Construction
1) The provisions of Subsections 3.1.4. and 3.1.5. for the protection of foamed plastic insulation apply to the unaltered elements of a building or part of a building under alteration and to the unaltered elements of any means of egress of the building.
10.3.1.2.
10-2 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
b)
and construction work (foundation, erection, renovation, modification or demolition work) performed for that purpose, and
with respect to the provisions of this Part, to every element, appliance, system, facility, equipment or unaltered portion of a building or part of a building.
The NBC applies, except as provided in this Part, to a change in occupancy for which there is no alteration work. (See Note A-10.2.2.2.(2).)
3) The NBC applies, excluding the relaxations of this Part, to any alteration in a building designed according to Article 3.2.2.50. or 3.2.2.58., or according to Sentence 3.2.2.50.(3) or 3.2.2.57.(3) of the NBC 2010 am. Quebec, or according to “Construction d’habitations en bois de 5 ou 6 étages, Directives et guide explicatif - Gouvernement du Quebec 2013” or “Mass timber buildings of up to 12 storeys - Directives and Explanatory Guide - Gouvernement du Québec 2015,”
a) for a change of occupancy to an occupancy prohibited in the building,
b) for a change of occupancy to an occupancy not permitted on the storey on
which the alteration is carried out,
c) for the increase of the building height, and
d) for an addition to the building area or floor area.
(See Note A-10.2.2.2.(3).)
4) For the purposes of this Part,
a) the retrofitting of a floor area or part of a floor area is considered a major
alteration if it involves altering the majority of the elements and components
of the walls, ceilings and floors, and
b) any other retrofitting of a floor area or part of a floor area is considered a
minor alteration.
(See Note A-10.2.2.2.(4).)
Section 10.3. Fire Protection, Occupant Safety and Accessibility
2)
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 10.3.2.2.
10.3.1.3.
10.3.2. 10.3.2.1.
Interior Finish
1) Except in the case of a minor alteration, the provisions of Subsection 3.1.13. for the flame-spread rating apply to the unaltered interior finish of ceilings and the upper half of the walls of every access to exit corridor from the access to exit door serving a part of the building under alteration to the nearest exit provided
a) the flame-spread rating of interior finishes exceeds 75, and
b) the alteration involves an increase in the occupant load, as determined in
conformance with Subsection 3.1.17.
Fire Safety in Buildings Noncombustibility of Buildings
1) Except as provided in Sentence (2), the provisions of the NBC requiring a noncombustible construction for a building having a building height equal to that of the uppermost storey where the alteration is being carried out, apply, in the altered part, to the unaltered combustible elements of a building required to be of noncombustible construction, except in the case of a minor alteration or provided
a) the floor area where the altered part is located and the storeys located below it are equipped with a sprinkler system conforming to Articles 3.2.5.12.
to 3.2.5.14., and
b) the building is equipped with a fire alarm and detection system conforming to Subsection 3.2.4.
2) The provisions of the NBC requiring a noncombustible construction also apply to the unaltered combustible elements of a building required to be of noncombustible construction provided
a) the floor area is increased during an alteration by more than 10% of the floor area or by more than 150 m2, except if
i) the altered floor area and the storeys located below are equipped with a sprinkler system conforming to Articles 3.2.5.12. to 3.2.5.14.,
ii) the building is equipped with a fire alarm and detection system conforming to Subsection 3.2.4.,
b) the building height is increased, except if the building is equipped with i) a sprinkler system conforming to Articles 3.2.5.12.
to 3.2.5.14., and
ii) a fire alarm and detection system conforming to
Subsection 3.2.4.
3) If the NBC requires both noncombustible construction and a sprinkler system, the design and installation of the sprinkler system shall conform to NFPA 13, “Installation of Sprinkler Systems,” for a level of risk higher than the level established in that standard for the intended occupancy.
Construction and Protection of Buildings
1) Except as provided in Sentences (2) and (3), where an alteration increases the level of the requirements in Subsection 3.2.2. following a change of occupancy or
an increase in the building height or floor area, the requirements in Subsection 3.2.2.
10.3.2.2.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 10-3
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 10.3.2.3.
Division B
10.3.2.3.
concerning the construction and protection of buildings in relation to their occupancies and dimensions that apply to the part under alteration also apply to
a) any other adjacent part that is not separated from the altered part by a fire separation having a fire-resistance rating at least equal to the fire-resistance rating required for the floors under Subsection 3.2.2., and
b) the storey below the altered part when
i) thealteredpartmustbesprinklered,and
ii) the fire-resistance rating of the fire separation between
the altered part and the floor area below is less than
the fire-resistance rating required in conformance with Articles 3.1.3.1. and 3.2.2.20. to 3.2.2.90., if the building need not be sprinklered; the fire-resistance rating is permitted to be limited to the part of the floor and to the structural elements supporting the altered part, if the latter is separated from the remainder of the floor area in accordance with Clause (a).
2) During a major alteration, if the provisions concerning the installation of a sprinkler system in Subsection 3.2.2. apply to the alteration, the provisions also apply to any adjacent part of a building that is not separated from the altered part by a fire separation having a fire-resistance rating at least equal to the fire-resistance rating required for the floor assemblies under Subsection 3.2.2.
3) The provisions concerning the installation of a sprinkler system under Subsection 3.2.2. do not apply to the alteration of a building or part of a building not equipped with such a system, in the following cases:
a) the increase in floor area during an alteration is not more than 10% of the building area or not more than 150 m2,
b) the work carried out is a minor alteration within the meaning of Sentence 10.2.2.2.(3),
c) for a noncombustible building, except a building containing a Group B, Division 2 or Division 3, Group C or Group F, Division 1 occupancy, or an ambulatory clinic occupancy when the work carried out does not require the noncombustibility of the building or floor area under alteration,
d) for the alteration of a noncombustible building containing an occupancy other than a Group B, Division 2 or 3, Group C or Group F, Division 1 occupancy, by limiting the building height to that of the uppermost storey where the alteration is being carried out and for which a sprinkler system would not be required,
e) for the alteration of a combustible building containing an occupancy other than a Group B, Division 2 or 3, Group C or Group F, Division 1 occupancy, the building height is limited to that of the uppermost storey where the alteration is being carried out and for which a sprinkler system is not required if the occupant load, as determined in accordance with Subsection 3.1.17. for the intended occupancy, is not more than 60, or
f) for a major alteration, if the fire-resistance rating of the floors, walls, columns and support arches of the altered floor area conforms to the fire-resistance rating required under Articles 3.1.3.1. and 3.2.2.20. to 3.2.2.90., except in the case of a high building or a Group B, Division 2 or 3, Group C or a Group F, Division 1 occupancy.
4) During the installation of a partial sprinkler system in a building, a standpipe must be sized to serve all the building, even if the system currently installed serves only part of the building.
Spatial Separation and Exposure Protection
1) In the case of an alteration, the provisions of Subsection 3.2.3. for spatial separation and exposure protection apply to the modification of any existing part of an exposing building face, if the modification results in
a) an increase in the surface of the openings beyond the limit referred to in Sentence 3.2.3.1.(1) for unprotected openings,
b) a reduction in the limiting distance, or
c) a reduction in the resistance to fire.
10-4 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 10.3.2.6.
10.3.2.4.
2) When a building or part of a building is under alteration, a party wall that is not built as a firewall shall
a) conform to the provisions of Subsection 3.1.10. for the construction of a firewall from the ground up, if the height of the party wall has been increased, and
b) have a fire-resistance rating not less than 2 h on the altered side and ensure smoke-tightness from the floor of the altered part to the underface of the floor or roof located above the alteration.
Fire Alarm and Detection Systems
1) Except as required by Sentence (2), for an alteration, Subsection 3.2.4. covering fire alarm and detection systems applies to a building that is not equipped with such a system and any part of a system that is not electrically supervised and equipped with separate zone indicators if the alteration results in
a) an increase in the occupant load, in the altered part, that exceeds the occupant load stated in Sentence 3.2.4.1.(4),
b) a new Group A, B, C, E, or F, Division 1 or 2 occupancy,
c) an increase in the building area by more than 10% or by more than 150 m2,
d) an increase in the number of storeys, or
e) a modification that constitutes a major alteration within the meaning of
Sentence 10.2.2.2.(4).
2) Except as required by Sentence (3), for an alteration, Subsection 3.2.4. applies to the altered part and the requirements of Subsection 3.2.4. covering fire alarm and detection systems apply to the unaltered part of the system to the extent that those requirements are necessary to ensure system operation in the altered part.
3) However, in the parts of the building not subject to a major alteration or enlargement, the fire detection and alarm system need not comply with the requirements of Sentence 3.2.4.18.(5) provided
a) in a dwelling unit and in a multi-room hotel or motel suite, except when the suite or dwelling unit is completely retrofitted, the fire alarm signal sound pressure level shall be not less than 85 dBA near the entrance door, in a closed position, and
b) in a bedroom in a residential occupancy, other than a bedroom located in a dwelling unit, the standard is 75 dBA.
Provisions for Firefighting
1) The provisions of Articles 3.2.5.7. to 3.2.5.18. apply to the unaltered part of a sprinkler system or standpipe system, where the alteration of a building or part of a building increases the building height or the floor area by more than 10% of the building area or more than 150 m2, except if the system
a) has a fire department connection,
b) is of the wet pipe type in the heated parts of the building, and
c) has an approved booster pump capable of providing the pressure required by NFPA 13, “Installation of Sprinkler Systems,” or NFPA 14, “Installation of Standpipe and Hose Systems,” where the water pressure in the system is lower than that pressure, except as provided in Sentence (2).
2) The residual water pressure at the topmost hose connection of a standpipe system of a building referred to in Clause (1)(c) is permitted to be less than the pressure required by NFPA 14, “Installation of Standpipe and Hose Systems,” but not lower than 207 kPa if the requirement in Clause 3.2.5.9.(5)(c) is met.
Additional Requirements for High Buildings
1) Except as provided in Sentence (2), Subsection 3.2.6. covering additional requirements for high buildings applies to a high building in accordance with Part 3 that is under an alteration that results in
a) a change of occupancy so that it becomes a Group B or C building,
b) an increase in building height, or
10.3.2.5.
10.3.2.6.
c) a modification of more than 50% of the floor areas for a reconstruction.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 10-5
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 10.3.2.7.
Division B
10.3.2.7.
10.3.3. 10.3.3.1.
2) This Subsection also applies to the entire building that becomes a high building following an alteration resulting in
a) a change of occupancy of the building, or
b) an increase in building height, except if the increase is not more than 4 m
and its floor area is not more than 10% of the area of the storey located immediately below, without exceeding 150 m2.
3) The size of the usable platform referred to in Sentence 3.2.6.5.(2) does not apply to an elevator modified to become an elevator for use by firefighters.
Emergency Power for Firefighting
1) The provisions of Clause 3.2.7.9.(1)(b) for emergency power for water supply apply to an existing fire pump if an alteration results in an increase in building height or a change of occupancy of the building to a Group B, Division 2 or Division 3 or Group F, Division 1 occupancy or an ambulatory clinic occupancy.
Safety within Floor Areas Access to Exit
1) Except in the case of a minor alteration, the provisions of Section 3.3. covering access to exit apply to every unaltered access to exit serving part of a floor area under alteration provided
a) the unobstructed height is not more than 1 900 mm,
b) the unobstructed width is not more than
i) 1 100 mm in the case of a corridor referred to in Sentence 3.3.1.9.(2), or serving dwelling units of a care occupancy,
ii) 900 mm in the case of a corridor serving dwelling units of a residential occupancy,
c) notwithstanding Clause (b), the access to exit serving the altered part shall comply with the minimum width provided for in Article 3.4.3.2., which is calculated according to the occupant load under Subsection 3.1.17.,
d) the length of dead-end corridors exceeds
i) 6 m for any building of residential occupancy, except as
provided in Sentences (2) and (3), or
ii) 12mforGroupsA,D,EandF,Divisions2and3occupancies,
and
e) the separation of the corridors from the remainder of the building is not
smoke-tight.
2) A public corridor referred to in Subclause (1)(d)(i) that is located in a building
of residential occupancy built before 1 December 1976 other than a hotel or motel is permitted, when the fire separation of the corridor has a fire-resistance rating not less than 45 min, to have a dead-end part not exceeding 12 m provided
a) the doors of the dwelling units
i) have a self-closing mechanism and they do not lock
automatically, and
ii) areweatherstrippedtopreventthepassageofsmoke,
b) the corridor has smoke detectors connected to a fire alarm system installed as required by Subsection 3.2.4.,
c) the floor area is sprinklered throughout as required by Articles 3.2.5.12.
to 3.2.5.14., except if the building has a building height not more than 4 storeys and each dwelling unit has a balcony accessible to the fire department, and
d) the floor area has not changed occupancy.
3) A public corridor referred to in Subclause (1)(d)(i) that is located in a building
of residential occupancy built before 1 December 1976 other than a hotel or motel is
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
10-6 Division B
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 10.3.4.1.
10.3.3.2.
10.3.3.3.
10.3.4. 10.3.4.1.
permitted, when the fire separation of the corridor has a fire-resistance rating not less than 1 h, to have a dead-end part not exceeding 15 m provided
a) the doors of the dwelling units
i) have a self-closing mechanism and they do not lock
automatically, and
ii) areweatherstrippedtopreventthepassageofsmoke,
b) the corridor has smoke detectors connected to a fire alarm system installed as required by Subsection 3.2.4., and
c) the floor area is sprinklered throughout, as required by Articles 3.2.5.12.
to 3.2.5.14., except if the building has a building height not more than 6 storeys and each dwelling unit has a balcony accessible to the fire department.
4) When change of occupancy occurs, the width of an unaltered corridor serving dwelling units in a care occupancy is permitted to be limited to 1 100 mm.
5) An unaltered door to access to exit, exit door or washroom door serving part of the building under alteration shall be equipped with release hardware conforming
to Sentence 3.3.1.13.(3).
Separation of Suites
1) In the case of the alteration of a suite, the fire separation separating the suite from any other unaltered suite or room shall have a fire-resistance rating determined according to Subsection 3.1.7. and comply with Article 3.3.1.1.; the fire-resistance rating on the unaltered side is permitted to be less than the required fire-resistance rating without, however, being less than the more restrictive provisions of Chapter VIII, Buildings, of the Safety Code (chapter B-1.1, r. 3).
Barrier-Free Floor Areas
1) Except in the case of a minor alteration, any part of an unaltered floor area on a storey under alteration shall comply with Article 3.3.1.7., if the room or part of the floor area accessible by elevator is required to be barrier-free under Article 10.3.8.1.
Exit Requirements
Dimensions and Protection of Exits and Exit Stairs
1) Except in the case of a minor alteration, any unaltered exit required to serve a floor area or part of a floor area under alteration shall
a) have a minimum unobstructed width not less than
i) 760mmforabuildingbuiltbefore1December1976,
ii) 900mmforabuildingbuiltasof1December1976,
iii) 1 100 mm for changes of occupancy, an increase of the
occupant load or an addition, when it serves a Group A, Group B, Division 2 or 3, or Group E occupancy or storage garages serving more than 150 persons,
b) notwithstanding Clause (a), an exit serving the altered part shall comply with the minimum width provided for in Article 3.4.3.2., which is calculated according to the occupant load under Subsection 3.1.17. (see Note A-10.3.4.1.(1)b)),
c) except as permitted by Sentences (2) and (3), be separated from the remainder of the building by a fire separation with a fire-resistance rating
i) notlessthan45minforabuildingnotmorethan3storeys in building height not containing a Group B, Division 2 or 3 occupancy,
ii) notlessthan2hforchangesofoccupancy,anincreaseofthe occupant load or an addition, for building more than 3 storeys containing a Group B, Division 2 or 3 occupancy,
iii) notlessthan1hforotherbuildings.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Division B 10-7
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 10.3.4.2.
Division B
10.3.4.2.
2) In a school built before 1 December 1976, an unaltered stairway required as an exit to serve a floor area or part of a floor area under alteration need not have the fire separation required in Clause (1)(c) provided
a) the alteration work will not increase the requirements for the means of egress,
b) the building is not more than 3 storeys in building height,
c) half of the required exits are separated from the remainder of the building by a fire separation having a fire-resistance rating required by the NBC,
d) it is not necessary to pass through it to reach another exit required when the occupant load is more than 60,
e) any corridor or room opening onto it is separated from it by a fire separation having a fire-resistance rating not less than 45 min and any door opening onto it has a self-closing device, a latching mechanism and, if it is kept opened, an electromagnetic device connected to the alarm system,
f) any corridor or room opening onto it has smoke detectors that must be placed near the openings on the stairway, and
g) the building has not undergone a change of occupancy.
3) An unaltered stairway of a building built before 1 December 1976 and required as an exit to serve a floor area or a part of a floor area under alteration need not have the fire separation required in Clause (1)(c) provided
a) the alteration work will not increase the requirements for the means of egress,
b) it is used to connect the first storey with the storey above or below but not
both,
c) the floor areas it connects serve any occupancy other than a Group A, B or
C occupancy,
d) half of the exits required are separated from the remainder of the building by
a fire separation having a fire-resistance rating required by the NBC and they
lead directly to the exterior,
e) the travel distance to the exterior exit door on the first storey is not more
than 15 m,
f) the building has an alarm system that conforms to Subsection 3.2.4., and
g) a smoke detector is located above the uppermost flight of stairs.
Door Swing
1) The provisions of Article 3.4.6.12. covering the direction of an exit door swing apply to every unaltered exterior exit door serving a floor area or part of a floor area of an occupancy other than a Group F, Division 1 occupancy that is under alteration, except if
a) the exit door opens directly onto a public way, independently from any other exit, when it serves only one floor area or part of a floor area whose occupant load determined according to Subsection 3.1.17. is not more than
i) 40personswhenthereisonlyoneexitdoor,or
ii) 60personswhenthereisoneexitdoorandasecondmeans
of egress, or
b) the exit door serves not more than 30 persons in a building not more than
18 m in building height, and
i) itopensdirectlyontoastep,apublicwayoranobstaclethat
reduces its required minimum width and it is located not
more than 1.5 m above the public way, and
ii) theoccupantshaveaccesstoasecondmeansofegress.
Curved Exit Stairs
1) A curved or spiral exit stair that is not under alteration but that is used to serve a floor area or part of a floor area under alteration shall
a) comply with Article 10.3.4.1., and
b) not serve a daycare centre or a Group B, Division 3 occupancy.
Exit Signs
1) During an alteration, the requirements in Sentence 3.4.5.1.(2) do not apply to the
unaltered signs of exits in a floor area. (See Note A-10.3.4.4.(1).)
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
10.3.4.3.
10.3.4.4.
10-8 Division B
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 10.3.8.1.
2) Except as provided in Sentence (3), when the alteration involves the relocation, replacement or addition of an exit sign of a floor area, all the exit signs of the same floor areas shall conform to Sentence 3.4.5.1.(2).
3) Exit signs are permitted to conform to Article 3.4.5.1. of the NBC 2005 am. Quebec
a) when only one sign must be relocated, added or replaced on the floor area, or
b) when no more than 5% of the signs must be relocated, added or replaced
on the floor area.
10.3.5. Vertical Transportation
10.3.5.1. Exclusion
1) Article 3.5.4.1. covering the inside dimensions of elevator cars does not apply to
a facility under alteration. 10.3.6. Service Facilities
10.3.6.1. Service Rooms and Vertical Service Spaces
1) The provisions of Subsections 3.6.2. and 3.6.3. apply during an alteration, other than a minor alteration, to an unaltered service room located in a floor area or part of a floor area and to an unaltered vertical service space passing through it, except if the room or space is separated from the remainder of the building by a fire separation having a fire-resistance rating not less than
a) 2 h for any room containing fuel-fired appliances located in a Group B or F, Division 1 occupancy building that is more than 2 storeys in building height or that has a building area more than 400 m2,
b) 1 h for any other service room or a linen chute or refuse chute, or
c) 45 min for any other vertical service space.
10.3.7. Health Requirements 10.3.7.1. Plumbing Facilities
1) An unaltered plumbing facility serving part of a building under alteration shall meet the requirements in Subsection 3.7.2. where the alteration involves an increase in occupant load by more than 25.
10.3.8. Barrier-Free Design 10.3.8.1. General
1) When a building does not have barrier-free access, Section 3.8. covering barrier-free design does not apply to the building or part of the building under alteration provided
a) the work involves
i) a service facility other than a vertical transportation
facility for which a barrier-free path of travel is required by
Article 10.3.8.2., or
ii) afloorareaorsuiteoccupiedbynotmorethan60personsor
whose area does not exceed 250 m2,
b) the floor area served by a pedestrian entrance
i) cannot be accessed from the public way by an external ramp built in conformance with Article 10.3.8.4., without encroaching on that way,
ii) islocatedmorethan900mmfromthepublicwaylevel,or
iii) islocatedmorethan600mmfromtheentrancelevel,and
c) the difference in levels between the floor of the pedestrian entrance and the floor of the elevator is more than 600 mm, where the part of the floor area under alteration can be accessed by an elevator.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 10-9
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 10.3.8.2.
Division B
10.3.8.2.
Area Requiring a Barrier-Free Path of Travel
1) When the application of Section 3.8. is not excluded by Sentence 10.3.8.1.(1), Sentence 3.8.2.3.(1) applies, in the part of the building not under alteration, only to the path of travel required to connect
a) at least one pedestrian entrance to
i) thefloorareaorpartofafloorareaunderalterationandtoat
least one existing elevator serving it where applicable, or ii) anexistingoutdoorparkingareaservingthebuilding,and
b) the floor area or part of a floor area under alteration to at least one accessible washroom, when there is no other accessible washroom in the altered part.
Washroom
1) In the case referred to in Clause 10.3.8.2.(1)(b), where a washroom located in the
unaltered part of a floor area must be made accessible, it must conform to Article 3.8.2.8. Ramps
1) Any ramp in a barrier-free path of travel required by Article 10.3.8.2. is permitted, notwithstanding the requirement of Article 3.8.3.5., to have a slope that does not exceed
a) 1:8 if the length of the ramp is not more than 3 m, or
b) 1:10 in all other cases.
Dwelling Unit of Residential Occupancy
1) Article 3.8.2.13. and Subsections 3.8.4. and 3.8.5. concerning dwelling units of residential occupancy shall not apply to a minor or major alteration or to a change of occupancy.
10.3.8.3.
10.3.8.4.
10.3.8.5.
Section 10.4. Structural Design
10.4.1. 10.4.1.1.
10.4.1.2.
10.4.1.3.
Structural Loads and Procedures General
1) Except as provided in Article 10.4.1.2., the provisions of Part 4 covering structural design apply to any floor area or part of a floor area, structural element, roof and foundation of a building not undergoing modification when an alteration requires modification to maintain stability, resistance or structural integrity.
Live Loads
1) The live load required by Article 4.1.5.3. does not apply to an alteration to a floor area used as an office and located on the first storey of a building, or to such a floor area used for a wholesale and retail business provided
a) the live loads applied to the existing areas have a value of not less than 2.4 kPa, and
b) the alteration of the existing areas does not result in an increase in their live load or dead load.
Live Loads Due to Earthquakes
1) Where a building is under alteration, its capacity to resist seismic loads shall comply with the following conditions:
10-10 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
a) b)
it must not be reduced by the alteration,
except for buildings having a structure designed in conformance with the seismic design requirements in the NBC 2005 am. Quebec or the NBC 2010 am. Quebec, it must be increased to not less than 60% of the seismic
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
10.7.1.1.
protection level that would be prescribed according to Part 4 if the alteration results in
i) morethan25%ofallthefloorareasundergoinggutting,in the case of a post-disaster building,
ii) theresistancesystemoflateralloadsbeingmodifiedbythe alteration,
iii) an enlargement of the building area by more than 10% or more than 150 m2, except if the structure of the addition is separate from that of the existing part and the movement of each structure in the event of an earthquake does not affect the adjacent structure, or
iv) thealterationincreasesthedeadloadbymorethan5%ofthe building or increases the total of the live loads included in “W,” as defined in Sentence 4.1.8.2.(1), by more than 5%.
In the case of post-disaster buildings, where Clause (1)(b) applies to alteration work, the anchorage of non-structural elements and components listed in
Table 4.1.8.18. shall be verified and brought into conformance with the requirements of Article 4.1.8.18. in the case of elements and components that would likely interfere with the post-disaster function of the building in case of failure.
Section 10.5. Environmental Separation
10.5.1. Exclusion
10.5.1.1. Change of Occupancy
1) Notwithstanding Sentence 10.2.2.2.(2), Part 5, which covers environmental separation, does not apply to materials, components, assemblies and air barrier systems for any change in occupancy that does not involve modification work affecting the separation between the two different environments, except if the alteration includes the installation of equipment that creates different indoor environments inside the building. (See Note A-10.5.1.1.(1).)
Section 10.6. Heating, Ventilation and Air-conditioning
10.6.1. General
10.6.1.1. Natural Ventilation
1) Except in the case of a storage garage, rooms and spaces under alteration need not conform with the ventilation requirements in Articles 6.3.1.1. to 6.3.1.3. if they have openable windows with an unobstructed surface for ventilation equal to not less than 5% of the floor area of the rooms or spaces.
Section 10.7. Plumbing Systems
10.7.1. General 10.7.1.1. Plumbing Systems
1) Part 7, which covers plumbing services, applies to an unaltered plumbing system if an alteration requires modification to the system to ensure its conformance with health requirements or its operation.
2)
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 10-11
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022
 10.9.1.1.
Division B
Section 10.8. Section 10.9.
Reserved
Housing and Small Buildings
10.9.1. 10.9.1.1.
10.9.2. 10.9.2.1.
Structural Requirements and Barrier-Free Design Application
1) Subsection 9.4.1., which covers the design of structural elements and their connections, applies only in the cases and to the extent referred to in Subsection 10.4.1.
2) Subsection 9.5.2., which covers barrier-free design, applies only in the cases and to the extent referred to in Subsection 10.3.8.
Means of Egress
Dimensions of Means of Egress and Direction of Door Swing
1) The provisions of Article 9.9.1.1. covering the dimensions of stairs that are part of a means of egress and of Subsection 9.9.3. covering the dimensions of a means of egress apply to every unaltered means of egress that serves a part of a building under alteration, if the exit or access to exit has a minimal unobstructed width not less than 760 mm.
2) Sentence 9.9.6.5.(1) covering the direction of door swing of an exit applies to every unaltered exterior exit door that serves a floor area or part of a floor area under alteration, unless the door opens directly onto a public way, independently of any other exit, and serves only one floor area or part of a floor area that has an occupant load, as determined in conformance with Subsection 3.1.17., that is not more than
a) 40, when there is only one exit door, or
b) 60, when there is one exit door and a second means of egress.
Fire Protection of Exits and Separation of Public Corridors
1) The provisions of Subsection 9.9.4. covering the fire protection of exits apply to every unaltered exit serving a floor area or part of a floor area under alteration that is not separated from the remainder of the building by a fire separation having a fire-resistance rating not less than 45 min.
2) Except as provided in Articles 10.9.2.3. and 10.9.3.2., the provisions of Sections 9.9. and 9.10. covering public corridors apply to every unaltered public corridor serving a floor area or part of a floor area under alteration if
a) its unobstructed height is not more than 1 900 mm,
b) its unobstructed width is not more than 760 mm,
c) its dead-end length exceeds
i) 6minthecaseofabuildingofresidentialoccupancy,except
as provided in Sentence (3), or
ii) 12mforGroupsD,EandF,Division2and3occupancies,
and
d) the separation of the corridor from the remainder of the building is not
smoke-tight.
3) A public corridor referred to in Subclause (2)(c)(i) located in a building of residential occupancy built before 1 December 1976 other than a hotel or motel is permitted when the fire separation of the corridor has a fire-resistance rating not less than 45 min, to have a dead-end part not exceeding 12 m provided
a) the door of each dwelling unit has a self-closing device and does not lock automatically,
b) the corridor has smoke detectors connected to the fire alarm system, installed as required by Subsection 3.2.4.,
c) the floor area is sprinklered throughout, as required by Articles 3.2.5.12.
to 3.2.5.14., except if each dwelling unit has a balcony accessible to the fire department, and
d) the floor area has not undergone a change of occupancy.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
10.9.2.2.
10-12 Division B
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 10.9.3.2.
10.9.2.3.
10.9.2.4.
Flame-Spread Limits in Means of Egress
1) The provisions of Subsection 9.10.17. covering flame spread limits apply to the unaltered interior finish of ceilings and the upper half of the walls of every public corridor, from the access to exit door of the part under alteration to the nearest exit provided
a) the flame-spread rating exceeds 75, and
b) the alteration involves an increase in occupant load, as determined in
Subsection 3.1.17.
Exit Signs
1) During an alteration, the requirements in Sentence 9.9.11.3.(2) do not apply to
the unaltered signs of exits in a floor area.
2) Except as permitted in Sentence (3), when the alteration involves the relocation, replacement or addition of an exit sign of a floor area, all the exit signs of the same floor area shall conform to Sentence 9.9.11.3.(2).
3) Exit signs are permitted to conform to Article 3.4.5.1. of the NBC 2005 am. Quebec
a) when only one sign must be relocated, added or replaced on the floor area, or
b) when no more than 5% of the signs must be relocated, added or replaced on
the floor area (see Note A-10.3.4.4.(1)).
Fire Protection
Spatial Separation and Exposure Protection
1) Except as provided in Sentence (2), the provisions of Subsections 9.10.14. and 9.10.15. covering spatial separation do not apply to an alteration to any existing part of an exposing building face, unless the alteration results in
a) an increase of the opening surfaces beyond the limit referred to in Sentences 9.10.14.4.(1) and 9.10.15.4.(1), for unprotected openings,
b) a reduction of the limiting distance, or
c) a reduction of resistance to fire.
2) When a building or part of a building is under alteration to increase the building height or floor area, the requirements in Table 9.10.14.5.-A do not apply to the building or the alteration if
a) the building is not more than 3 storeys in building height,
b) the building houses dwelling units only,
c) the fire-resistance rating of the exposing building face is not less than 1 h, and
d) the cladding is noncombustible.
3) When a building or part of a building is under alteration, any party wall that is not built as a firewall shall
a) except as provided in Clause (b), have a fire-resistance rating not less than 2 h on the altered side and ensure smoke-tightness from the floor of the altered part to the underface of the floor or roof located above the alteration, and
b) for an increase in height, conform to Subsection 9.10.11. for the construction of a firewall from the ground up.
Fire Alarm and Detection Systems
1) Subsection 9.10.18. covering fire alarm and detection systems under alteration does not apply to a building not equipped with such a system, unless the alteration results in
a) an increase in the occupant load in the altered part, b) a new Group C, E or F, Division 2 occupancy,
c) an increase in the building area by more than 10%, or d) an increase in the number of storeys.
2) This Subsection applies to any unaltered part of a fire alarm and detection system if the system is not electrically supervised and equipped with separate zone indicators.
10.9.3. 10.9.3.1.
10.9.3.2.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 10-13
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 10.10.1.1. Division B
Section 10.10. Objectives and Functional Statements
10.10.1. 10.10.1.1.
Objectives and Functional Statements Attributions to Acceptable Solutions
1) For the purposes of compliance with the NBC as required in
Clause 1.2.1.1.(1)(b) of Division A, the objectives and functional statements attributed to the acceptable solutions in this Part must be the objectives and functional statements listed in Table 10.10.1.1. (See Note A-1.1.2.1.(1).)
Table 10.10.1.1.
Objectives and Functional Statements Attributed to the Acceptable Solutions in Part 10
Forming Part of Sentence 10.10.1.1.(1)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
10.3.1.1. Separation of Major Occupancies
(1) See Sentences 3.1.7.1.(1) to 3.1.7.5.(3) in Table 3.10.1.1. See Article 3.1.3.1. of Table 3.10.1.1.
10.3.1.2. Combustible and Noncombustible Construction
(1) See Sentence 3.1.4.2.(1) in Table 3.10.1.1.
10.3.1.3. Interior Finish
(1) See Sentences 3.1.13.2.(1), 3.1.13.7.(1), 3.1.13.10.(1) and 3.1.13.11.(1) and Article 3.1.13.6. in Table 3.10.1.1.
10.3.2.1. Noncombustibility of Buildings
(1) [F02-OS1.2]
(2) [F02-OP1.2]
10.3.2.2. Construction and Protection of Buildings
(1) [F02-OS1.2] [F02,F04-OS1.2-OS1.3]
(2) [F02-OP1.2] [F02,F04-OP1.2-OP1.3]
10.3.2.3. Spatial Separation and Exposure Protection
(1) [F03,F02-OP3.1]
[F02,F04,F03-OS1.2] [F04-OS1.3] [F05-OS1.5]
[F03-OP1.2] [F04-OP1.3]
(2) [F03-OP3.1]
10.3.2.4. Fire Alarm and Detection Systems
(1) [F11,F13,F12,F81,F82-OS1.5] [F13,F81,F82,F12-OS1.2] [F11-OS1.4]
[F13,F81,F82-OP1.2.]
[F12,F11-OS3.7]
10.3.2.5. Provisions for Firefighting
(1) [F12,F05,F06,F11-OS1.5] [F12,F02,F03,F05,F06,F81, F82-OS1.2]
[F12,F02,F03,F06,F81,F82-OP1.2]
[F02-OP3.1]
(2) [F02-OP1.2] [F02-OS1.2]
Table 10.10.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
10.3.2.6. Additional Requirements for High Buildings
(1) [F02,F06,F03,F12-OS1.2] [F02,F06,F03,F12,F05-OS1.5] [F02,F06,F03,F12-OP1.2]
(2) [F02,F06,F03,F12-OS1.2] [F02,F06,F03,F12,F05-OS1.5] [F02,F06,F03,F12-OP1.2]
(3) [F12-OS1.2,OS1.5] [F12-OP1.2]
10.3.2.7. Emergency Power for Firefighting
(1) [F02-OP3.1]
10.3.3.1. Access to Exit
10-14 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
(1)
[F10,F12,F05,F06-OS3.7] [F30-OS3.1] [F05,F03,F06-OS1.5] [F03,F06-OS1.2] [F30-OS1.3] [F03,F06-OP1.2]
10.3.3.2. Separation of Suites
(1) [F03,F02-OS1.2] [F04-OS1.3] [F03,F02-OP1.2] [F04-OP1.3]
10.3.3.3. Barrier-Free Floor Areas
(1) [F10,F05,F06,F73-OS1.5] [F03-OS1.2]
10.3.4.1. Dimensions and Protection of Exits and Exit Stairs
(1) a) [F10,F12-OS3.7] [F30,F73-OS3.1] [F05,F06-OS1.5] [F06-OS1.2]
b) [F03-OS1.2]
10.3.4.2. Door Swing
(1) [F10-OS3.7]
10.3.4.3. Curved Exit Stairs
(1) [F10,F12-OS3.7] [F30,F73-OS3.1] [F05,F06-OS1.5] [F06,F03-OS1.2]
10.3.4.4. Exit Signs
(1) [F10-OS3.7]
10.3.6.1. Service Rooms and Vertical Service Spaces
(1) [F03,F02,F06-OS1.2] [F03-OS1.4] [F01,F81,F44,F34-OS1.1] [F10,F06-OS1.5]
[F01,F34-OP1.1] [F04,F06-OP1.2] [F03-OP1.4] [F06,F05-OS3.7] [F30-OS3.1] [F34-OS3.3]
                                                                   © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
10.10.1.1.
Table 10.10.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
10.3.7.1. Plumbing Facilities
(1) [F72-OH2.1] [F71-OH2.3] [F40-OH2.4] [F30,F20-OS3.1] [F31-OS3.2] [F43-OS3.4] [F74-OA2]
10.3.8.2. Areas Requiring a Barrier-Free Path of Travel
(1) [F73-OA1]
10.3.8.3. Washrooms
(1) [F74-OA2]
[F72-OH2.1] [F71-OH2.3]
[F73-OA1]
10.3.8.4. Ramps
(1) [F73-OA1]
10.4.1.3. Live Loads Due to Earthquakes
(1) [F20-OP2.1] [F20,F22-OP2,4] [F20-OP2.3]
[F20-OS2.1] [F22-OS2.3,OS2.4]
10.7.1.1. Plumbing Systems
(1) [F30-OS3.1] [F31-OS3.2] [F43-OS3.4] [F70-OH2.2] [F72-OH2.1]
10.9.2.1. Dimensions of Means of Egress and Direction of Door Swing
(1) [F10-OS3.7] [F30-OS3.1]
(2) [F10-OS3.7]
10.9.2.2. Fire Protection of Exits and Separation of Public Corridors
(1) [F05-OS1.5] [F03-OS1.2] [F03-OP1.2]
(2) See Sentences 9.9.1.3.(1) to 9.10.22.3.(3) in Table 9.37.1.1.
10.9.2.3. Flame-Spread Limits in Means of Egress
(1) [F01,F02,F05-OS1.5] [F01,F02-OS1.2]
10.9.2.4. Exit Signs
(1) [F10-OS3.7]
10.9.3.1. Spatial Separation and Exposure Protection
(1) [F02,F03-OP3.1]
(2) [F02,F03-OP1.2] [F02,F03-OP3.1]
(3) [F03,F04-OP1.2] [F03,F04-OS1.2] [F03,F04-OP3.1]
10.9.3.2. Fire Alarm and Detection Systems
(1) [F11,F13-OS1.5] [F13,F03,F11-OS1.2] [F11-OP1.2]
(2) [F11,F13-OS1.5] [F13,F03,F11-OS1.2] [F11-OP1.2]
Table 10.10.1.1. (Continued) Notes to Table 10.10.1.1.:
(1) See Parts 2 and 3 of Division A.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Division B
10-15
                                            © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022
10-16 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2

 Division B
Notes to Part 10
Existing Buildings under Alteration, Maintenance or Repair
A-10.2.1.1.(1)b) Standard Applicable during the Construction or Alteration of the Building. Section 344 of Division III, General, of Chapter VIII, Buildings, of the Safety Code (chapter B-1.1, r. 3) determines, for every building, the standard applicable during its construction.
A-10.2.2.1.(1) Maintenance or Repair Work. The restoration or repair of projections and stairs is considered maintenance work for the purposes of Part 10 where such work is performed to maintain or restore the projections and stairs in good condition without altering their characteristics or functions. However, the projections and stairs must conform to the regulations in force at the time of their original construction.
A-10.2.2.2.(2) Change of Occupancy. Change of occupancy also applies to a change of occupancy within a group of occupancy. For example, if a school is converted into a licensed beverage establishment, even though both occupancies are in the same group, the NBC applies to the building or part of the building in which the occupancy is changed, even if the change does not involve alteration work. This is because Part 10 includes provisions that could cover certain elements, such as fire separations and their fire-resistance rating, of the adjacent parts located around, under or above the part in which the occupancy is changed.
A-10.2.2.2.(3) Combustible Building. Buildings designed according to Article 3.2.2.50. or 3.2.2.58. or according to Sentence 3.2.2.50.(3) or 3.2.2.57.(3) of the NBC 2010 am. Quebec, or according to one of the guides referred to in the Article, are essentially combustible buildings, Group C or D, in which several occupancies are not permitted because of the risks they represent.
During the alteration of such a building or one of its parts, the installation of a risky occupancy not permitted in the original design of the building results in a reduction of the level of safety of the occupants. This is contrary to the NBC, which aims to increase the level of safety. Consequently, the provisions of Part 10 do not apply during the alteration of such a combustible building, Group C or D or one of its parts.
In addition, the difference between a combustible building and a non-combustible building does not change only with a sprinkler system, even if the system is designed for a risk level higher than that required by the NBC for the occupancy covered. The design criteria of a combustible building are not limited to the performance level of the sprinkler system, and even more if the alteration of such a combustible building or one of its parts covers the increase of the building height or an addition to the building area or floor area.
A-10.2.2.2.(4) Major or Minor Alteration. The concepts of major or minor alteration are used for retrofitting. The term “retrofitting” means all the alteration work carried out in view of a different use of the altered part. Alteration types, such as addition, change of major occupancy, alteration of the envelope or exterior elements, increase in occupant load, construction of or modification to a mezzanine or interconnected floor space, or addition or modification of a vertical transportation facility are not governed by this type of alteration since they are already governed by other requirements in Part 10.
The modification of most of the elements and components of walls, ceilings and floors of a dwelling unit not affecting an adjacent dwelling unit or adjacent corridor is considered as a minor alteration, so all the altered elements in the dwelling unit must conform to the NBC.
These Notes are included for explanatory purposes only and do not form part of the requirements. The number that introduces each Note corresponds to the applicable requirement in this Part.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 10-17
  © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-10.3.4.1.(1)b) Division B
A-10.3.4.1.(1)b) Capacity of Exits Serving an Altered Part. If the calculation of the capacity requires the exits to have a width larger than 900 or 1 100 mm, they should be modified or another exit conform to Section 3.4. should be added.
A-10.3.4.4.(1) Exit Sign. The purpose of this Sentence is to permit the use of exit signs consisting of the letters "SORTIE" or "EXIT" in red or white on a contrasting red or white background in existing buildings even during alteration work. However, if during the course of the alteration work, the owner or his or her representative decides to use the green pictogram to identify an exit in a floor area, all of the exits signs in that floor area must be of the same type. Exit signs located inside individual suites in the floor area must also be replaced, along with those located in an interconnected floor space or a mezzanine leading to that floor area. It is thus permitted to have two different types of exit signs in the same building but not in the same floor area.
Where the alteration work includes adding an exit in the building, all of the exit signs in the floor area(s) under alteration must conform to the requirements of Sentence 3.4.5.1.(2) for a building designed according to Part 3 of the NBC or conform to Sentence 9.9.11.3.(2) for a building designed according to Part 9 of the NBC because the alteration work involves the addition of an exit and not its replacement.
A-10.5.1.1.(1) Change of Occupancy without Work. The installation of equipment producing a lot of water steam inside a building, such as a lap pool, a spa or a steam sauna, may create different environments inside the building.
10-18 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
Part 11
Energy Efficiency
11.1. General
11.1.1. Scope and Definitions ................... 11-1
11.2. Thermal Insulation
11.2.1. General ............................................ 11-1
11.2.2. Thermal Resistance ....................... 11-2
11.2.3. Thermal Bridges ............................. 11-4
11.3. Objectives and Functional Statements
11.3.1. Objectives and Functional
Statements ...................................... 11-5
Notes to Part 11 .............. 11-7
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2

 Division B
Part 11
Energy Efficiency
Section 11.1. General
11.1.1. 11.1.1.1.
11.1.1.2.
Scope and Definitions Scope
1) The scope of this Part shall be as described in Subsection 1.3.3. of Division A. Defined Words
1) Words that appear in italics are defined in Article 1.4.1.2. of Division A. Section 11.2. Thermal Insulation
11.2.1. 11.2.1.1.
11.2.1.2.
General Application
1) This Section applies to all walls, floors, ceilings, windows, doors and skylights separating heated space from unheated space, exterior air or the ground of a building that is to be heated during winter. (See Note A-11.2.1.1.(1).)
General Requirements
1) Windows, doors and skylights shall conform to Section 9.7.
2) Foamed plastic shall be protected in accordance with Article 9.10.17.10.
3) Walls, floors and roofs in contact with the ground shall conform to
Subsections 9.13.2. and 9.13.3.
4) Crawl spaces shall be ventilated in conformance with Subsection 9.18.3.
5) Roof spaces shall be ventilated in conformance with Subsection 9.19.1.
6) Thermal insulation and measures to control heat transfer, air leakage and
condensation shall conform to Section 9.25. (See Note A-11.2.1.2.(6).)
7) Cladding shall conform to Section 9.27.
8) Ventilation shall conform to Section 9.32.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Division B 11-1
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 11.2.2.1.
Division B
11.2.2. 11.2.2.1.
Thermal Resistance
Thermal Resistance of Building Components
1) Except as permitted by Sentences (2) to (4), Articles 11.2.2.2. to 11.2.2.4. and Subsection 11.2.3., the total thermal resistance of a building component shall have a value
a) at least equal to those in Table 11.2.2.1.-A for a building located in a municipality whose number of degree-days below 18°C is less than 6 000, or
b) at least equal to those indicated in Table 11.2.2.1.-B for a building located in a
municipality whose number of degree-days below 18°C is at least 6 000.
(See Note A-11.2.2.1.(1).)
2) The total thermal resistance required by Sentence (1) for flat roofs may be reduced by not more than 20% at its lowest point if the drainage slopes are created by insulating materials, provided that the total thermal resistance of the roof is increased so that the heat loss calculated through the roof is not greater than the heat loss that would result if the total thermal resistance of the roof complied with Sentence (1).
3) The total thermal resistance required for roofs, ceilings and walls above ground level indicated in Tables 11.2.2.1.-A and 11.2.2.1.-B may be reduced if
a) the annual energy consumption of the proposed construction does not exceed that of the reference construction that complies with the requirements of Part 11, and
b) the only components whose total thermal resistance may be upgraded are roofs, ceilings, walls above ground level, doors, windows and skylights.
(See Note A-11.2.2.1.(3).)
4) The total thermal resistance of heated garages shall have a value of not less than
a) 5.2 for the ceilings and floors adjacent to the dwelling unit,
b) 3.5 for the walls adjacent to the dwelling unit, or
c) at the foundation wall
i) 2.99betweenthegarageandthedwellingunitovertheentire vertical surface of the wall, or
ii) 1.76fortheotherwallstoadepthof600mmbelowground level.
(See Note A-11.2.2.1.(4).)
Table 11.2.2.1.-A
Total Thermal Resistance of Buildings Located in a Municipality Whose Number of Degree-days Below 18°C Is Less than 6000 Forming Part of Sentence 11.2.2.1.(1)
Building Component
Roof or ceiling separating heated space from unheated space or exterior air
Wall above ground level, other than a foundation wall, separating heated space from unheated space or exterior air
Foundation wall(1) separating heated space from unheated space, exterior air or adjacent ground
Floor separating heated space from unheated space or exterior air
Notes to Table 11.2.2.1.-A:
Total Thermal Resistance (RSIT)
7.22 4.31 2.99 5.20
(1) A foundation wall having more than 50% of its surface exposed to exterior air, and the portion of a foundation wall that incorporates wood stud framing elements, must have a total thermal resistance equal to that required for a wall above ground level.
11-2 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
      © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B
11.2.2.4.
Table 11.2.2.1.-B
Total Thermal Resistance of Buildings Located in a Municipality Whose Number of Degree-days Below 18°C is at Least 6000 Forming Part of Sentence 11.2.2.1.(1)
Building Component
Roof or ceiling separating heated space from unheated space or exterior air
Wall above ground level, other than a foundation wall, separating heated space from unheated space or exterior air
Foundation wall(1) separating heated space from unheated space, exterior air or adjacent ground
Floor separating heated space from unheated space or exterior air
Notes to Table 11.2.2.1.-B:
Total Thermal Resistance (RSIT)
9.00 5.11 2.99 5.20
(1) A foundation wall having more than 50% of its surface exposed to exterior air, and the portion of a foundation wall that incorporates wood stud framing elements, must have a total thermal resistance equal to that required for a wall above ground level.
11.2.2.2.
Thermal Resistance of Floors-on-Ground Other Than a Garage Floor
1) The thermal resistance of material insulating a floor-on-ground shall have a value of not less than
a) 1.32 for a floor-on-ground located above the ground or not more than 600 mm below the adjacent ground level,
b) for a floor-on-ground located more than 600 mm below the adjacent ground level,
i) 0.88, or
ii) 1.32andinstalledaroundthefloor-on-groundoverawidth
of at least 1.2 m,
c) 1.76 in the following situations:
i) heatingpipes,tubes,ductsorcablesareburiedunderthe floor-on-ground and the insulating material is installed under the heating pipes, tubes, ducts or cables, or
ii) heatingpipes,tubes,ductsorcablesareembeddedinthe floor-on-ground and the insulating material is installed under the floor-on-ground.
Thermal Resistance Near Eaves
1) The total thermal resistance indicated in Table 11.2.2.1.-A or 11.2.2.1.-B for a roof or ceiling may be reduced near eaves if the roof slope and necessary ventilation clearances so require, provided that the value is not less than the value required by Table 11.2.2.1.-A or 11.2.2.1.-B for a wall above ground level other than a foundation wall.
Thermal Performance of Windows, Doors and Skylights
1) The thermal characteristics of windows, doors and skylights shall
a) be determined in accordance with CSA A440.2/A440.3, “Fenestration
Energy Performance/User Guide to CSA A440.2-19, Fenestration Energy
Performance,” and
b) conform to the values in Table 11.2.2.4.
(See Note A-11.2.2.4.(1).)
2) Windows and skylights, including glazed doors, shall have a minimum airtightness rating of A2 in accordance with AAMA/WDMA/CSA 101/I.S.2/A440, “NAFS – North American Fenestration Standard/Specification for Windows, Doors, and Skylights.”
3) Except in the case of the enlargement of a building not more than 10 m2, the total area of the rough openings in the building components that are to receive windows, doors, skylights and other similar components shall not be greater than 30% of the
11.2.2.3.
11.2.2.4.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 11-3
     © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 11.2.3.1.
Division B
11.2.3. 11.2.3.1.
Thermal Bridges Thermal Bridges in Walls
(See Note A-11.2.3.1.)
11-4 Division B
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
area of walls above ground level, including above-ground foundation walls. (See Note A-11.2.2.4.(3).)
4) The thermal performance required in Sentence (1) and the maximum area described in Sentence (3) may be different provided
a) the annual energy consumption of the proposed construction does not exceed that of the reference construction conforming to the requirements of Part 11, and
b) the only components that may be altered with regard to total thermal resistance are roofs, ceilings, walls above ground level, doors, windows and skylights.
(See Note A-11.2.2.1.(3).)
Building Component
Maximum overall thermal transmittance (U-value) of doors without glazing
Maximum overall thermal transmittance (U-value) / Minimum energy rating (ER) or maximum overall thermal transmittance (U-value) of glazed doors
Maximum overall thermal transmittance (U-value) / Minimum energy rating (ER) of windows
Maximum overall thermal transmittance (U-value) of skylights
Building Located in a Municipality Whose Number of Degree-days Below 18°C Is Less Than 6000
Building Located in a Municipality Whose Number of Degree-days Below 18°C Is Of At Least 6000
0.8
2.0 / 25 or 1.6
2.0 / 25 or 1.6 / 17
2.7
Table 11.2.2.4.
Maximum Overall Thermal Transmittance (U) and Minimum Energy Rating (ER) of Windows, Doors and Skylights Forming Part of Sentence 11.2.2.4.(1)
0.9
2.0 / 21 or 1.8
2.0 / 21 or 1.8 / 13
2.85
1) Building components constituting a thermal bridge shall be covered with insulating material having a thermal resistance of
a) for a i)
ii)
b) for a
i)
2) The insulating material shall cover the building components constituting the thermal bridge, on the outside, on the inside or a combination of both.
3) A wall between two heated spaces that incorporates a thermal bridge shall be covered with insulating material to obtain a thermal resistance of not less than 2.20 on each side of the wall over a minimum distance of 1.2 m from the exterior side of the exterior wall.
4) Except as permitted by Sentence (5), the header shall be insulated so as to have a total thermal resistance value equivalent to that required for a wall above ground level other than a foundation wall.
wood frame, of
at least 0.7 if the frame members are spaced less than 600 mm o.c., or
at least 0.53 in all other cases,
metal frame, of
at least 1.76 if the frame members are spaced less than 600 mm o.c., or
at least 1.32 in all other cases,
ii)
c) at least 0.88 for a concrete construction.
          © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B 11.3.1.1.
11.2.3.2.
11.2.3.3.
5) In the case of a concrete construction where the header may only be insulated on the outside, the total thermal resistance value is permitted to be lower than that required in Sentence (4) provided the insulating material covering that component has a thermal resistance of at least 1.76.
Thermal Bridges in Floors
1) The thermal resistance of insulating material covering thermal bridges in floors shall have a minimum value of 1.32 in the following areas:
a) cantilevered above-ground floors, and
b) floors above unheated spaces.
Thermal Breaks in a Foundation Wall in Contact with a Floor-on-Ground Other Than a Garage Floor
1) The insulating material between the foundation wall and the floor-on-ground shall have a thermal resistance of
a) not less than 1.32 for a floor-on-ground located above ground level or not more than 600 mm below ground level to a depth of 600 mm below ground level,
b) for a floor-on-ground located more than 600 mm below ground level, not less than
i) 1.32ifheatingpipes,tubes,ductsorcablesareburiedunder or are embedded in the floor-on-ground, or
ii) 0.7 for other floors-on-ground.
Section 11.3. Objectives and Functional Statements
11.3.1. Objectives and Functional Statements 11.3.1.1. Attributions to Acceptable Solutions
1) For the purposes of compliance with the NBC as required in
Clause 1.2.1.1.(1)(b) of Division A, the objectives and functional statements attributed to the acceptable solutions in this Part must be the objectives and functional statements identified in Table 11.3.1.1. (See Note A-1.1.2.1.(1).)
Table 11.3.1.1.
Objectives and Functional Statements Attributed to the Acceptable Solutions in Part 11
Forming Part of Sentence 11.3.1.1.(1)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
11.2.2.1. Thermal Resistance of Building Components
(1) [F92-OE1.1]
(2) [F92-OE1.1]
(4) [F92-OE1.1]
11.2.2.2. Thermal Resistance of Slabs-on-Ground other than a Garage Floor
(1) [F92-OE1.1]
11.2.2.3. Thermal Resistance near Eaves
(1) [F92-OE1.1]
11.2.2.4. Thermal Performance of Windows, Doors and Skylights
(1) [F92-OE1.1]
(2) [F92-OE1.1]
(3) [F92-OE1.1]
Table 11.3.1.1. (Continued)
Functional Statements and Objectives(1)
11.2.3.1. Thermal Bridges in Walls
(1) [F92-OE1.1]
(3) [F92-OE1.1]
(5) [F92-OE1.1]
11.2.3.2. Thermal Bridges in Floors (1) [F92-OE1.1]
11.2.3.3. Thermal Breaks in a Foundation Wall in Contact with a Slab-on-Ground other than a Garage Floor
(1) [F92-OE1.1]
Notes to Table 11.3.1.1.:
(1) See Parts 2 and 3 of Division A.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Division B 11-5
                           © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022
11-6 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2

 Division B
Notes to Part 11 Energy Efficiency
A-11.2.1.1.(1) Exemptions. Buildings that are not intended to be heated are exempt from the energy efficiency requirements. This could apply to storage and parking garages as well as small service buildings or service rooms and areas in larger buildings, where those buildings, rooms or areas are not heated.
A-11.2.1.2.(6) Air Barrier Systems. To measure the air infiltration rate of a construction, it is recommended that it be determined in accordance with CAN/CGSB-149.10-M, “Determination of the Airtightness of Building Envelopes by the Fan Depressurization Method.”
A-11.2.2.1.(1) Thermal Resistance of Building Components. For the purposes of Part 11, wall assemblies inclined less than 60° from horizontal are considered to be roof assemblies, and roof assemblies inclined 60° or more from horizontal are considered to be wall assemblies.
Except for tubular daylighting devices, the total thermal resistance for walls required in Table 11.2.2.1.-A or 11.2.2.1.-B also applies to shafts for skylights.
The thermal resistance of a building component can be calculated by conducting tests at temperature conditions specific to the construction site using ASTM C 1363, “Thermal Performance of Building Materials and Envelope Assemblies by Means of a Hot Box Apparatus.”
A-11.2.2.1.(3) Conformity Assessment by Comparison of Annual Energy Consumption. The concept of measuring conformity by comparing the annual energy consumption of a reference construction
to that of a proposed construction is one way to benchmark the conformity of a proposed construction to
Part 11 requirements. The compliance requirements of this Code are consistent with an objective-based code of demonstrating for the proposed construction a level of performance similar to that of the reference construction.
“Reference construction“ means a hypothetical replica of the proposed construction design using the same energy sources for the same functions and having the same environmental requirements, occupancy and climate data, but made to comply with all applicable prescriptive requirements of Part 11.
“Construction energy target“ means the annual energy consumption of the reference construction.
“Annual energy consumption“ means the annual sum of heating and space-conditioning energy consumption of the proposed construction design. It must be noted that the annual energy consumption is not the real consumption but rather that provided by energy simulation.
The calculation procedure must determine the annual energy consumption of the proposed construction and the construction energy target of a reference construction. The annual energy consumption of the proposed construction must not exceed the construction energy target of the reference construction. Proof of those results must be available on request.
If a computer program is used to carry out the calculations, it shall be used for both the reference and proposed constructions, and may be tested according to ANSI/ASHRAE 140, “Evaluation of Building Energy Analysis Computer Programs,” and variations in the computer program results from the different recommended values must be calculated.
Where the construction techniques or components used for the construction are more energy-efficient than those prescribed by the prescriptive requirements, performance compliance calculations are permitted to take
These Notes are included for explanatory purposes only and do not form part of the requirements. The number that introduces each Note corresponds to the applicable requirement in this Part.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 11-7
  © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 A-11.2.2.1.(4) Division B
this increased performance level into account in the determination of the annual energy consumption, provided it can be quantified and is not dependent on occupant interaction.
The calculation procedure must account for the annual energy consumption of systems and equipment required for space heating and conditioning and for ventilation. The calculation procedure must account
for heat transfer through wall assemblies, roof-ceiling assemblies and exposed floor assemblies due to the thermal characteristics of the particular assembly and thermal bridging. The roof-ceiling assembly includes the attic. The building envelope assemblies and components required to be addressed in the calculations are above-ground assemblies (walls and roof-ceiling assemblies), assemblies in contact with the ground (floors and walls), and doors, windows and skylights.
Where the calculation procedure accounts for the effect of thermal mass, the contents of the construction shall be excluded.
Where skylights are installed in the roof, the gross roof area does not exclude the gross roof area of skylights.
The calculation procedure for the reference construction must include the same values as those used for the proposed construction with regards to the floor area, the heated volume, and the number and types of rooms.
The calculation procedure for the proposed construction must be consistent with the proposed construction specifications with regards to openings and opaque envelope assembly type, their thermal resistance and areas, and more specifically to
(a) the area of the above-ground portion of basement walls,
(b) the thermal resistance of walls, below-ground walls, ceilings below attics, roof assemblies and header
joists,
(c) the maximum overall thermal transmittance of openings,
(d) thetotalthermalresistanceofbelow-groundwallsandfloors-on-ground,
(e) exteriorwalls,roof-ceilingassemblies,exposedfloors,doors,wallsandfloorsincontactwiththeground,
(f) theconfigurationofinsulationinassembliesincontactwiththeground,and
(g) the thermal resistance of foundation walls.
The drawings and specifications for the proposed construction must include information to analyze construction compliance with regulations. It is suggested to include the following information:
(a) thethermalresistancevaluesandrespectiveareasofallopaquebuildingenvelopeassemblies,including all above-ground and below-ground roof-ceiling, wall, and floor assemblies,
(b) theoverallthermaltransmittanceofallwindows,doorsandskylightsandtheirrespectiveareas,
(c) the ratio of total opening area to exterior wall area,
(d) the design basis for the ventilation rates, and
(e) any additional features used in the compliance calculation that account for a significant difference in
the proposed construction energy performance.
A proposed construction energy performance compliance calculation report must be provided for each proposed construction design that does not comply with the requirements of Part 11. In addition to the information of the drawings and specifications, the inclusion of which is suggested, the proposed construction energy performance compliance calculation report must include
(a) a project information section containing • a project description,
• the project address,
• the name and version of the calculation tool, and
• thegeographicregioninwhichtheproposedconstructionistobebuilt,
(b) asummaryofthecharacteristicsoftheproposedconstructionenvelope,HVACsystem, (c) an energy performance data summary containing
• theannualenergyconsumptionofallenergysourcescalculatedfortheproposedconstruction,
• theenergytargetofallenergysourcescalculatedforthereferenceconstruction,and (d) where a software program is used for compliance calculations,
• thesimulationreportfortheproposedconstructionandforthereferenceconstruction,and • the name of the software program used.
A-11.2.2.1.(4) Thermal Resistance of Garages. This Sentence aims to alleviate discomfort in rooms adjacent to a garage. Even when a heating system is installed in the garage, the temperature in the garage may be kept low to save on heating costs in that space. This causes discomfort in the rooms above, below or adjacent to the garage.
11-8 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Division B A-11.2.3.1.
A-11.2.2.4.(1) Windows. For the purposes of Part 11, sliding doors must comply with the requirements for windows.
Not more than 1.85 m2 of glass block may be installed in the same construction where the glass block has a maximum overall thermal transmittance equivalent to that of skylights as indicated in Table 11.2.2.4.
The overall thermal transmittance of doors may be obtained using the door or door / storm door assembly.
A garage door giving access to vehicles must comply with the values in Table 11.2.2.4.
To minimize surface condensation on the warm side of windows, doors or skylights, it is recommended to install those components inside the insulation or near the vertical axis of the centre of the RSI value of the insulating material. This recommendation does not apply to openings in foundation walls.
A-11.2.2.4.(3) Rough Openings. The area of rough openings includes the area occupied by frame openings. “Opening“ means windows, doors and other similar components such as glass blocks, clerestories, skylights, translucent wall panels, transoms or sidelights. Despite the foregoing, openings occupied by garage doors giving access to vehicles are permitted to be excluded in calculating the total area of openings, even
if those doors have windows.
Despite the fact that Part 11 does not contain requirements to minimize overheating that may be caused by translucent openings according to their size and orientation, it is recommended to take it into consideration in order to minimize the energy load that would be needed to condition certain spaces.
A-11.2.3.1. Thermal Bridges. Minor penetrations such as ties, shims or any similar fastener need not be taken into account as members that may constitute a thermal bridge.
Insulation of thermal bridges excludes the interior and exterior finishes of the building assembly and surface air films behind those finishes.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Division B 11-9
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022
11-10 Division B National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2

 Index
Abbreviations acronyms, 1.3.2.1. symbols and, 1.2.2.1. terms and, 1.4.1.2.[A]
A
roof area, 3.2.5.3.
storeys below ground, 3.2.2.15. storeys above grade, 3.2.5.1. street frontages, 3.2.2.10.
Accessibility (see Barrier-free) Access openings
HVAC systems, 6.8.1.1. Access panels, 3.2.5.1., 9.10.20.1. Access routes
design, 3.2.5.6.
location, 3.2.5.5., 9.10.20.3.
need for, 3.2.5.4.
self-service storage buildings, 3.9.2.3. as streets, 3.2.2.10.
Adfreezing, 1.4.1.2.[A], 4.2.4.4. Adhesives
ceramic wall tiles, 9.29.10.3.
ducts, 3.6.5.4., 9.33.6.4. Administration of the Code, 2.2.[C] Admixtures
concrete, 9.3.1.8.
mortar and grout, 9.20.3.2. Aggregate
for built-up-roofing, 9.26.11.1., 9.26.11.4.
for concrete, 9.3.1.1., 9.3.1.4., 9.3.1.7.
for mortar, 5.9.1.1., 9.20.3.1., 9.20.3.2., 9.29.10.2. for stucco, 9.28.2.2., 9.28.5.1.
Air
circulation, 6.3.2.7., 9.33.6.7.
distribution, 9.33.6.11.
flow through and around insulation, 5.3.1.3.,
9.19.1.3., 9.25.2.3., 9.25.2.4.
leakage, 3.1.8.4., 5.1.1.1., 5.4.1.1., 5.9.3.4., 5.9.4.1.,
9.25.5.1.
leakage resistance, 5.4.1.1., 5.4.1.2., 9.13.4., 9.18.6.2.,
9.25.5.1.
makeup, 6.3.2.8., 9.32.3.8. permeance, 5.4.1.2., 9.25.5.1. tempering, 9.32.3.4., 9.32.3.8. transfer, 5.1.1.1., 5.2.1.3.
Air barrier systems
airtightness, 5.4.1.1.
assemblies in contact with the ground, 9.13.4.,
9.25.3.6.
continuity, 5.4.1.2., 9.25.3.3. crawl space floors, 9.18.6.2. definition, 1.4.1.2.[A] deflections, 5.2.2.1.
Acceptable solutions, 1.1.2.1., 1.2.1.1.[A] Access
attics or roof spaces, 3.6.4.4., 9.19.2.1. chimneys, 6.3.3.4.
crawl spaces, 3.6.4.6., 9.18.2.1., 9.18.4.1. fire dampers, 3.1.8.10.
hatchways to roof, 9.19.2.1.
horizontal service spaces, 3.6.4.5., 9.18.2.1.,
9.18.4.1., 9.19.2.1.
HVAC equipment, 6.2.1.6., 9.33.4.4. smoke dampers, 3.1.8.11.
Access to exits
capacity, 3.3.1.17., 9.9.3.
corridors in assembly occupancy, 3.3.2.6. corridor width, 3.3.1.9.
dead-end corridors, 9.9.7.3.
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
dimensions, 9.9.3.
doors, 3.3.1.13., 3.3.2.7., 9.9.6., 9.9.7.4.
doors, sliding, 3.3.1.12.
doors, transparent, 3.3.1.19.
dwelling units, 9.9.9.
within floor areas, 3.3.1.3.
headroom clearance, 3.3.1.8., 9.9.3.4. independent access to, 9.9.7.5.
lighting, 9.9.12.2.
podiums, terraces, platforms and contained open
spaces, 9.9.7.1.
residential occupancy, 3.3.4.4.
roofs, 3.3.1.3., 9.9.7.1.
service rooms, 9.9.7.5.
suites, 9.9.7.2.
transparent panels, 3.3.1.19.
travel distance, 9.9.7.6.
when exits are means of egress, 9.9.7. width, 9.9.3.2., 9.9.3.3.
Access for firefighting
access routes, 3.2.5.4., 3.2.5.5., 3.2.5.6. basements, 3.2.5.2., 9.10.20.2.
and building size determination, 1.3.3.4.[A] provisions, 9.10.20.
[A] – Reference occurs in Division A. [C] – Reference occurs in Division C. All other references occur in Division B.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Index
 © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 environmental loads, 5.1.4.1.
environmental separation, 5.1.1.1. floors-on-ground, 9.18.6.2., 9.25.3.6.
housing and small buildings, 9.25.3. installation, 9.23.2.2., 9.25.3.3.
material standards, 5.9.1.1., 9.18.6.2., 9.25.3.2.,
9.25.3.6.
properties, 9.25.3.1., 9.25.5.1. properties of, 5.4.1.2., 9.25.3.2. repair garages, 9.10.9.17. requirement for, 9.25.3.1. storage garages, 9.10.9.16.
Airborne sound rating, 3.3.4.6., 5.8.1.2., 9.11. Air cleaning devices, 6.3.2.14. Air-conditioning systems and equipment
access, 6.2.1.6., 6.8.1.1., 9.33.4.4.
cleaning, 6.2.1.6., 9.33.4.4.
cooling units, 6.6.1.1.
design, 6.2.1., 9.33.1.1., 9.33.3.2., 9.33.4.1., 9.33.5.3. fire safety characteristics, 6.9.1.1., 9.33.6. installation, 6.2.1., 6.6.1.1., 9.32.3.2., 9.33.1.1.,
9.33.4., 9.33.5.2., 9.33.9.1.
installation standards, 6.2.1.5., 9.33.5.2., 9.33.5.3.,
9.33.6.7.
protection from freezing, 6.2.1.6., 9.33.4.5. structural movement, 4.1.8.18., 6.2.1.4., 9.33.4.7. system pressure, 6.2.1.3., 9.33.4.6.
Air duct systems
application of Code, 6.3.2.1.
clearance of ducts and plenums, 6.3.2.6. connections, 6.3.2.4.
drain pans, 6.3.2.2.
duct coverings and linings, 6.3.2.5. interconnection, 6.3.2.7.
makeup air, 6.3.2.8.
materials, 6.3.2.3.
supply, return, intake and exhaust air openings,
6.3.2.9.
Air filters, 6.8.1.3., 9.33.6.14. Air intakes
area, 9.32.3.13.
connection, 9.33.6.6.
grilles, 6.3.2.9., 9.33.6.10.
labeling, 9.32.3.13.
location, 6.3.2.9., 9.32.3.13., 9.33.6.10., 9.33.6.12. protection, 6.3.2.9., 9.32.3.13., 9.33.6.10.
Air outlets
area, 9.32.3.13.
capacity, 9.33.6.11.
diffusers, 9.33.6.10., 9.33.6.11.
grilles, 6.3.2.9., 9.32.3.13., 9.33.6.10.
labeling, 9.32.3.13.
location, 6.3.2.9., 9.32.3.13., 9.33.6.10., 9.33.6.11. protection, 6.3.2.9., 9.32.3.13., 9.33.6.10.
warm air heating, 9.33.6.10., 9.33.6.11.
Air quality, emergency power supply, 3.2.7.9. Air-supported structures
clearance to flammable material, 3.1.6.4. clearance to other structures, 3.1.6.3. definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
electrical systems, 3.1.6.7.
emergency air supply, 3.1.6.6. fire protection, 9.10.1.3.
fire safety restrictions, 3.1.6.2. flame resistance, 3.1.6.5. means of egress, 3.1.6.1.
roof coverings, 3.1.15.2.
structural design basis, 4.4.1.1. Airtightness
material standards, 5.9.1.1.
requirement for, 5.4.1.1.
windows, doors and skylights, 5.9.2.3., 9.7.4.
Air washers, 6.3.2.16. Aisles
with fixed seats, 3.3.2.5.
within floor areas, 3.3.1.10.
leading to exits, 3.4.2.5.
minimum clear width, 3.3.2.1. outdoor places of assembly, 3.3.2.11. with steps, handrails for, 3.3.2.10. width, 3.4.3.2.
Alarm signal
audibility, 3.2.4.17., 3.2.4.18. definition, 1.4.1.2.[A] design, 3.2.4.4.
high buildings, 3.2.6.7. silencing, 3.2.4.6.
system monitoring, 3.2.4.15.
Alert signal
audibility, 3.2.4.17., 3.2.4.18. definition, 1.4.1.2.[A] design, 3.2.4.4.
high buildings, 3.2.6.7. system monitoring, 3.2.4.15.
Alterations to buildings, 1.1.1.1.[A], 1.4.1.2.[A] Alternative materials, 1.2.2.1.[A]
Alternative solutions, 1.2.1.1.[A], 2.3.1.[C] Aluminum
flashing, 9.20.13.1., 9.26.4.2., 9.27.3.7., 9.28.1.5. nails, 9.26.2.3.
roofing, 9.26.13.1.
siding, 9.27.11.1.
structural design basis, 4.3.5. Ambulatory clinic occupancy
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A] Ammonium nitrate, 3.3.6.6. Anchorage
anchor bolts, 9.20.11.6., 9.20.17.6. columns, 9.23.6.2., 9.35.4.3. concrete stairs, 9.8.10.2.
cornices, 9.20.11.5.
floors, 9.20.11.
foundations, 9.23.6., 9.35.4.3.
framing, 9.23.6.
horizontal force factor, 4.1.8.18.
lateral loads, 9.23.6.1.
masonry, 9.20.9., 9.20.11.
masonry walls to wood-frame construction,
9.20.11.3., 9.20.11.4. roofs, 9.20.11., 9.20.17.6. sills, 9.20.11.5.
Index National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 small buildings, 9.23.6.3.
walls, 9.20.11., 9.23.3.4.
Anhydrous ammonia, storage, 3.3.6.3. Annunciators, fire alarm, 3.2.4.8., 3.2.4.9., 3.2.4.15.,
3.2.5.14., 3.2.7.10.
Antennas and antenna-supporting structures
earthquake loads and effects, 4.1.8.1.
wind loads, 4.1.7.11.
Apparent sound transmission class (ASTC)
calculation of, 5.8.1.2., 5.8.1.4., 5.8.1.5., 9.11.1.2. compliance, 5.8.1.3., 9.11.1.3.
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
Appliances
(see also Heating appliances; Heating systems
and equipment; Heating, ventilating and air-conditioning (HVAC) systems and equipment)
in access to exit, 3.3.1.2.
air-conditioning, 6.2.1., 9.33.4.1., 9.33.5.2. characteristics, 1.2.2.1.[A]
cooling, 6.2.1., 6.6.1.1., 9.33.4.1., 9.33.5.2., 9.33.9.1. definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
in exit, 3.4.4.4.
exterior, 3.6.1.5.
fuel-fired, 3.6.2.1., 9.10.10.4.
heating, 6.2.1.1., 9.33.4.1., 9.33.5.2.
location, 3.6.1.5., 6.3.2.17., 6.4.1.1., 9.10.10.4.
in means of egress, 9.9.5.7.
outdoor location, 6.2.1.6., 6.3.2.17., 6.4.1.2. protection from freezing, 6.2.1.6., 9.33.4.5. roof-top, 3.6.1.5., 3.6.2.1., 6.4.1.2., 9.10.1.3. solid-fuel-burning, 3.6.2.1., 6.2.1.5., 9.33.5.3. storage, 1.2.2.2.[A]
used, 1.2.2.3.[A]
ventilating, 6.2.1., 9.32.3.2.
Application of National Building Code divisions A, B, C, 1.3.[A] factory-constructed buildings, 1.1.1.1.[A] farm buildings, 1.1.1.1.[A]
new buildings, 1.1.1.1.[A]
objectives, 2.1.1.[A], 3.2.[A]
seasonally and intermittently occupied buildings,
9.1.1.1. Arches
fire-resistance ratings, 9.10.8.3.
in storeys below ground, 3.2.2.15. supporting floor above basement, 3.2.1.4. supporting masonry over openings, 9.20.5.2. supporting service room/space, 3.1.7.5.
Arch roofs, snow and rain loads, 4.1.6.10. Areas of refuge, 3.3.3.6.
Areas and spaces
design, 9.5.
dimensions, 9.5.1.1. Arena-type buildings
building classification, 3.1.2.3. building height exceptions, 3.2.1.1. roof assemblies, 3.2.2.17.
seating, 3.3.2.2.
Artesian groundwater, 1.4.1.2.[A], 4.2.5.5.
Asbestos in air distribution systems and equipment, 6.2.1.7., 9.33.4.8.
Assembly areas
loads on floor or roof, 4.1.5.3. loads on tributary areas, 4.1.5.8. sway forces and load, 4.1.5.10.
Assembly occupancy (Group A)
air-supported structure as, 3.1.6.6.
assistive listening devices, 3.8.2.9., 3.8.3.18. building classification, 3.1.2.1.
corridors, 3.3.2.6.
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
doors, 3.3.2.7.
fire protection, 3.2.2.17., 3.2.2.20. - 3.2.2.35., 9.10.1.3. fire safety within floor areas, 3.3.1., 3.3.2.1. location of smoke/fire dampers, 3.1.8.7.
occupant load, 3.1.17.1.
signals to fire department, 3.2.4.7.
visual alarm signals, 3.2.4.19.
washrooms, 3.7.2.
wheelchair spaces, 3.8.2.3.
Assistive listening devices, 3.8.2.9., 3.8.3.18. Atomizers, 6.3.2.16.
Attendant booths, 6.3.1.4.
Attics or roof spaces
access, 3.6.4.4., 9.19.2.
clearances, 9.19.1.3.
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
exterior wall enclosing, 3.2.3.3.
fire blocks, 3.1.11.1., 3.1.11.5., 9.10.16.1. fire protection, 9.10.12.4.
foamed plastics in, 3.1.4.2., 9.10.17.10. housing and small buildings, 9.19. insulation, 9.25.2.4.
loads, 4.1.5.3., 9.4.2.4.
in noncombustible construction, 3.1.5.3. service spaces, 3.6.1.1.
soffits protection, 3.2.3.16.
venting, 5.3.1.2., 6.3.1.2., 9.19.1.
Audible signal devices, 3.2.4.17., 3.2.4.18. Auditoriums, 3.2.2.21., 3.2.2.22.
Authority having jurisdiction, 1.4.1.2.[A]
Automatic locking devices, 3.3.4.5.
Automatic sprinkler systems (see Sprinkler systems)
B
Backdraft prevention, 6.3.2.10., 9.32.3.13. Backfill
(see also Fill) excavations, 9.12.3. material, 4.2.5.8., 9.12.3.3.
Backfilling
(see also Fill)
beneath concrete stairs, 9.8.10.3. beneath floors on grade, 4.2.5.8. beneath footings, 4.2.5.8. beneath foundations, 4.2.5.8.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Index
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 grading, 9.12.3.2. placement, 4.2.5.8., 9.12.3.1. review, 4.2.2.3.
Bacteria, minimizing growth of, 6.3.1.6., 6.3.2.15. Balance stops, 9.33.6.9.
Balconies
as access to exit, 9.9.9.3.
concealed spaces in, 3.1.11.5.
doors and door hardware, 3.3.1.13. earthquake load and effects, 4.1.8.1. exception to travel limit, 9.9.9.1.
exterior, 3.2.2.11.
guards around, 3.3.1.18., 9.8.8.
horizontal exits, 3.4.6.10.
limiting distance, 3.2.3.6.
loads on floor or roof, 4.1.5.3., 4.1.5.4., 9.4.2.3. occupant load, 3.1.17.1.
snow loads, 9.4.2.3.
sprinkler systems, 3.2.5.12.
wind loads, 4.1.7.5.
Banks, 3.4.6.17. Barrier-free
balconies, 3.3.1.7.
bathtubs, 3.8.2.8., 3.8.3.17.
controls, 3.8.2.6., 3.8.3.8.
counters, 3.8.2.11., 3.8.3.19.
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
design standards, 3.8., 3.8.3.1., 9.5.2.
doors and doorways, 3.8.3.6.
drinking fountains, 3.8.2.8., 3.8.3.10. elevators, 3.3.1.7., 3.5.2.1., 3.8.2.3., 3.8.3.7. entrances, 3.8.2.2.
exterior walks, 3.8.3.3.
floor areas, 3.8.2.3.
floor surfaces, 3.8.3.2.
lavatories, 3.8.2.8., 3.8.3.15.
parking areas, 3.8.2.5.
path of travel (see Path of travel, barrier-free) ramps, 3.8.3.5.
showers, 3.8.2.8., 3.8.3.16.
signs, 3.8.2.10., 3.8.3.9.
soap and towel dispensers, 3.8.3.15., 3.8.3.16. spaces in seating areas, 3.8.2.3., 3.8.3.21. telephone shelves, 3.8.2.11., 3.8.3.20. universal washrooms, 3.8.2.8., 3.8.3.12. urinals, 3.8.2.8., 3.8.3.14.
vestibules, 3.8.3.6.
washrooms, 3.8.2.8., 3.8.3.9., 3.8.3.11., 3.8.3.15. water closets, 3.8.3.11., 3.8.3.13.
Barriers
across transparent panels, 3.3.1.19. preventing exit obstruction, 3.4.6.11., 9.9.11.2.
Basements
access, 3.2.5.2., 9.10.20.2.
ceiling height, 9.5.3.1.
crawl spaces considered as, 3.2.2.9., 9.10.8.9. definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
exit signs, 3.4.5.2.
fire containment, 3.2.1.5.
fire protection, 3.2.2.15., 9.10.1.3. fire-resistance of floor assemblies over, 3.2.1.4.
fire separations, 9.10.9.4., 9.10.9.14. heating requirements, 9.33.3.1. industrial occupancy (Group F), 3.3.5.3. insulation, 9.25.2.2.
large or multi-storey, 9.10.1.3.
lighting, 9.34.2.3., 9.34.2.4.
residential occupancy (Group C), 3.2.2.47. storage garages, 3.1.10.3., 3.2.1.2., 9.10.4.3. supply outlets, 9.33.6.11.
Bathroom accessories, 3.7.2.3., 3.7.2.9., 3.8.3.8., 3.8.3.11., 3.8.3.15., 3.8.3.17.
Bathrooms
(see also Washrooms) ceiling height, 9.5.3.1. doorways, 9.4.4.3. flame-spread rating, 3.1.13.3.
Bathtubs, 3.7.2.9., 3.8.3.17., 9.6.1.4. Beams
bearing, 9.23.8.1.
built-up, 9.23.4.2., 9.23.4.4., 9.23.8.3. dimensions, 9.23.4.1.
glued-laminated, 9.23.4.1., 9.23.4.2., 9.23.4.4. in heavy timber construction, 3.1.4.7.
lumber grade, 9.3.2.1.
preservative treatment, 9.23.2.2., 9.23.2.3. ridge, 9.23.14.8.
spans, 9.23.4.1., 9.23.4.2., 9.23.4.4.
spans, maximum, 9.23.4.
steel, 9.23.4.3., 9.23.8.2.
supported on masonry or concrete, 9.10.9.9.,
9.15.5., 9.20.8.3., 9.20.8.4., 9.21.5.3., 9.23.2.2.,
9.23.2.3.
to support floors, 9.23.8. wood, 9.23.4.2., 9.23.4.4.
Bearing surface, 1.4.1.2.[A] Bedrooms
means of egress, 9.9.10.1. mechanical ventilation, 9.32.2.3. natural ventilation, 9.32.2.2. windows, 9.9.10.1.
Bleachers
aisles, 3.3.2.5.
guards, 3.3.2.9. inspection, 4.1.5.12. load analysis, 4.1.5.12. locking, 4.1.5.12. seats, 3.3.2.5.
steps, 3.3.2.5., 3.3.2.12.
Blocking
cladding, 9.27.5.2.
cladding and interior finishing materials, 9.23.10.5. doors, 9.7.5.2.
with handrails, 9.8.7.7.
joists, 9.23.9.3., 9.23.9.4., 9.23.14.9.
nailing, 9.23.3.4.
in noncombustible construction, 3.1.5.2.
rafters and joints, 9.23.14.7.
roof edges, 9.23.16.6., 9.23.16.7.
subflooring, 9.23.15.3.
walls, 9.23.9.8., 9.23.10.2.
Boarding and lodging houses, 9.10.9.14.
Index National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Boiler rooms, 3.6.2.2., 9.10.10.4. Boilers
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
installation standard, 6.2.1.5. Bonding
intersecting masonry walls, 9.20.11.2.
masonry, 9.20.9.
Book shelves, 3.3.2.13.
Braced wall bands, 1.4.1.2.[A], 9.23.13.4., 9.23.13.5. Braced wall panels
anchorage, 9.23.6.1., 9.23.13.5. definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
fastening, 9.23.3.4., 9.23.3.5. gypsum board, 9.29.5.9.
lateral loads, 9.23.13.5., 9.23.13.6. plywood, 9.29.6.3.
and wall supports, 9.23.9.8.
Bracing, wood-frame walls, 9.23.13., 9.23.13.4.,
9.23.13.5. Breeching, 1.4.1.2.[A]
Bridging floor joists, 9.23.9.4. Builder (see Constructor) Building area
assembly occupancy (Group A, Division 1), 3.2.2.20.
assembly occupancy (Group A, Division 2), 3.2.2.23.
assembly occupancy (Group A, Division 3), 3.2.2.29.
business and personal services occupancy (Group D), 3.2.2.55.
care, treatment or detention occupancy (Group B Division 1), 3.2.2.36., 3.2.2.37.
care, treatment or detention occupancy (Group B Division 2), 3.2.2.38. - 3.2.2.41.
care, treatment or detention occupancy (Group B Division 3), 3.2.2.42. - 3.2.2.46.
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
determination, 1.3.3.4.[A]
determination of fire safety requirements, 3.2.2.5. high-hazard industrial occupancy (Group F,
Division 1), 3.2.2.70.
low-hazard industrial occupancy (Group F,
Division 3), 3.2.2.80.
medium-hazard industrial occupancy (Group F,
Division 2), 3.2.2.74.
mercantile occupancy (Group E), 3.2.2.64. residential occupancy (Group C), 3.2.2.47. self-service storage buildings, 3.9.2.1.
Building assemblies fire-resistance rating, 3.1.7.5.
Building classification
by major occupancy, 3.1.2.1., 9.10.2. for wind load calculations, 4.1.7.2.
Building, definition, 1.4.1.2.[A] Building height
access route design, 3.2.5.6.
assembly occupancy (Group A, Division 1),
3.2.2.20.
assembly occupancy (Group A, Division 2),
3.2.2.23.
assembly occupancy (Group A, Division 3), 3.2.2.29.
business and personal services occupancy (Group D), 3.2.2.55., 3.2.2.57., 3.2.2.58.
care, treatment or detention occupancy (Group B Division 1), 3.2.2.36., 3.2.2.37.
care, treatment or detention occupancy (Group B Division 2), 3.2.2.38. - 3.2.2.41.
care, treatment or detention occupancy (Group B Division 3), 3.2.2.42. - 3.2.2.46.
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
determination, 1.3.3.4.[A], 9.10.4.
determination of fire safety requirements, 3.2.2.5. exceptions, 3.2.1.1.
garages as separate buildings, 9.10.4.3. high-hazard industrial occupancy (Group F,
Division 1), 3.2.2.70.
low-hazard industrial occupancy (Group F,
Division 3), 3.2.2.80.
medium-hazard industrial occupancy (Group F,
Division 2), 3.2.2.74.
mercantile occupancy (Group E), 3.2.2.64. mezzanines excluded, 9.10.4.1. mezzanines included, 9.10.4.2.
residential occupancy (Group C), 3.2.2.47.,
3.2.2.50., 3.2.2.51.
roof-top enclosures excluded, 9.10.4.4.
Building services
barrier-free controls, 3.8.3.8.
emergency power supply, 3.2.7.9.
and fire alarm systems, 3.2.4.2.
and firewalls, 3.1.10.1.
penetrating fire separations and fire-rated
assemblies, 3.1.9.2., 9.10.9.6. Building size determination
application of Code, 1.3.3.4.[A] inclusions, 9.10.4.1.
relative to occupancy, 9.10.8.
Built-up roofing, 9.26.11.
Business and personal services occupancy (Group D)
classification, 3.1.2.1., 9.10.2.
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
emergency power for fire alarm systems, 3.2.7.8. emergency power for lighting, 3.2.7.4.
exit stairs, 9.9.4.7.
exposing building face, 9.10.14.5.
fire access route design, 3.2.5.6.
fire alarm systems, 3.2.4.1., 9.10.18.
fire protection, 3.2.2.55. - 3.2.2.63.
fire-resistance rating, 9.10.8.
fire safety within floor areas, 3.3.1. flame-spread rating, 9.10.17.
occupant load, 3.1.17.1.
sprinkler systems, 3.2.5.12.
washrooms, 3.7.2.
C
Cabinetry, around cooktops, 9.10.22.3.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Index
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Cables
in combustible construction, 3.1.4.3. elevator, 3.1.5.22.
in noncombustible construction, 3.1.5.21. penetrating fire separations, 3.1.9.3.
in plenums, 3.6.4.3.
Caissons (see Pile foundations) Calculations and analyses
heat, air and moisture transfer, 5.2.1.2., 5.2.1.3. HVAC equipment and systems, 6.2.1.1., 9.33.4.1. limit states design, 4.1.3.
snow, rain and ice load, 4.1.6.
structural, 2.2.4.5.[C], 4
wind load, 4.1.7., 5.2.1.3., 5.2.2.2. Canopies
fabrics, 3.1.16.1.
for vertically separated openings, 3.2.3.17. Capacity of exit, 3.4.3.2.
Carbon monoxide
alarms, 9.32.3.8., 9.32.3.9.
concentration, 6.3.1.4.
detectors, 6.3.1.4., 6.9.3.1., 9.32.3.8., 9.32.3.9.
Care, definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
Care, treatment or detention occupancy (Group B)
building classification, 3.1.2.1.
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
door hold-open devices, 3.1.8.14.
doorway width, 3.3.3.4.
electromagnetic locks, 3.4.6.17.
emergency lighting, 3.2.7.3.
emergency power supply, 3.2.7.6.
evaporative cooling towers, 6.3.2.15.
fire alarm systems, 3.2.4.1., 3.2.4.18.
fire protection, 3.2.2.36. - 3.2.2.46.
fire safety within floor areas, 3.3.1., 3.3.3., 3.3.3.1. location of smoke/fire dampers, 3.1.8.7. occupant load, 3.1.17.1.
ramp slope maximum, 3.4.6.7. self-closing door hardware, 3.1.8.13. sleeping room exits, 3.4.1.6.
smoke alarms, 3.2.4.20.
smoke detectors, 3.2.4.11.
sprinkler systems, 3.2.2.19., 3.2.5.12. visual alarm signals, 3.2.4.19.
Carpets, 3.1.13.1. Carports
(see also Garages)
columns, 9.35.4.2., 9.35.4.3.
concrete for floors, 9.3.1.6.
for dwelling units, 9.35.
spatial separation from other buildings, 9.10.14.4. walls, 9.35.4.1., 9.35.4.3.
Catch basins, 9.14.6.4. Caulking
(see also Sealants)
for ceramic wall tile, 9.29.10.5.
door frames, 9.20.13.11.
material standards, 9.29.10.5.
in noncombustible construction, 3.1.5.2. requirements, 9.27.4., 9.27.4.1.
sill plates, 9.23.7.2.
stucco, 9.28.1.5.
windows and frames, 9.7.6.2., 9.20.13.11. Cavity walls
corbelling, 9.20.12.2.
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
flashing, 9.20.13.5., 9.20.13.6. framing supported by, 9.20.8.2. height and thickness, 9.20.6.2. lateral support, 9.20.10.1.
mortar droppings, 9.20.13.10. precipitation protection, 9.27.2.2. tying, 9.20.9.4.
Ceiling membranes
fire-resistance rating, 3.6.4.3., 9.10.3.4.
fire stop flaps, 9.10.13.14.
openings in, 3.1.9.6., 9.10.5., 9.10.9.6., 9.10.9.7. suspended, 9.10.3.4.
Ceiling panels, factory-assembled, 3.1.5.7. Ceilings
air barrier systems, 9.25.3. assembly used as plenum, 3.1.9.7. in corridors, 3.1.13.6.
fastened to floor joists, 9.23.9.4. finish, 3.1.5.12., 9.29.
foamed plastics in, 9.10.17.10. framing, 9.23.14.
framing around openings, 9.23.14.2. height, 9.5.3.
joists, 9.23.14.1., 9.23.14.7.
thermal insulation, 9.25.1.1.
Cement, standards for, 9.3.1.2.
Central alarm and control facility, 3.2.4.22., 3.2.6.4.,
3.2.6.7. Ceramic tile
as flooring, 9.30.6.
installation, 9.29.10.1.
as interior finish, 9.29.10.
subfloor, 9.23.15.5.
underlay, 9.23.15.5., 9.30.2.1., 9.30.2.2.
Chases, 9.20.7.
Children’s custodial homes, 3.2.4.3. Chimneys
access ladders, 6.3.3.4.
bracing, 9.21.4.5.
caps, 9.21.4.6.
cleanouts, 9.21.4.7.
clearances, 6.3.3.1., 9.21.5., 9.25.3.3. concrete, 1.4.1.2.[A], 6.3.3.2., 9.21., 9.21.4.2.,
9.33.10.3.
construction, 9.21.4.
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
design of, 6.3.3.2., 9.20.2.3., 9.21., 9.33.10.3. earthquake loads and effects, 4.1.8.1. factory-built, 1.4.1.2.[A], 9.33.10.2.
fireplace, 9.21.2.4., 9.21.2.5.
flashing, 9.21.4.6., 9.21.4.10., 9.26.4.4., 9.26.4.6.,
9.26.4.8.
flues, 9.21.2., 9.21.4.4.
footings, 9.21.4.3.
fuel-fired appliances, 6.3.3.1., 9.33.10.1. incinerators, 9.10.10.5., 9.21.2.1.
Index
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 lateral stability, 9.21.4.5.
liners (see Liners, chimney)
masonry, 1.4.1.2.[A], 6.3.3.2., 9.21., 9.21.4.1.,
9.33.10.3.
metal, 6.3.3.3., 9.33.10.2. saddles, 9.26.4.8.
sealing, 9.21.5.2.
venting equipment, 6.3.1. walls, 9.21.1.2.
wall thickness, 9.21.4.8.
Chutes
linen, 3.6.3.3., 9.10.1.3. refuse, 3.6.3.3., 9.10.1.3. sprinklers, 3.6.3.3. venting, 3.6.3.3.
Cladding
attachment, 9.27.5.
for braced wall panels, 9.23.13.6.
combustible, 9.10.14.5., 9.10.15.5.
in combustible construction, 3.1.4.8.
exposing building face, 3.2.3.7.
fastening to steel studs, 9.24.1.4.
housing and small buildings, 9.27. installation, 5.6.1.2., 5.9.1.1., 9.27.2.4., 9.27.3.6.,
9.27.5.
interior, 3.1.13.1.
noncombustible, 3.1.4.8., 3.2.3.7., 3.2.3.9. in noncombustible construction, 3.1.5.5. protection against precipitation, 5.6. requirement for, 5.6.1.1., 9.27.2.1. sealing, 5.6.2.1., 9.27.3.6., 9.27.4.
on steel studs, 9.24.1.5.
support of, 9.20.5., 9.23.10.5., 9.24.3.4. waterproofing, 9.27.4.
wind loads, 4.1.7.5., 4.1.7.6., 4.1.7.12.
Cladding, clay tile, 9.23.4.5. Cladding, concrete
design, 9.20.6.6.
water absorption, 9.20.2.6. weight, 9.20.2.6.
Cladding, decorative, 3.1.5.24. Cladding, hardboard
clearances, 9.27.2.4., 9.27.9.5.
dimensions, 9.27.9.2.
housing and small buildings, 9.27.9. installation, 9.27.2.4., 9.27.3.6., 9.27.5., 9.27.9.3. material standards, 5.9.1.1., 9.27.9.1.
Cladding, lumber
dimensions, 9.27.6.2.
housing and small buildings, 9.27.6. installation, 5.9.1.1., 9.27.2.4., 9.27.3.6., 9.27.5. material standards, 5.9.1.1.
Cladding, masonry
bonding and tying, 9.20.9.
flashing, 9.20.13.
housing and small buildings, 9.20., 9.27.2.2. installation, 5.6.1.2.
material standards, 5.9.1.1.
mortar joints, 9.20.4.
support of, 9.20.5.
Cladding, metal
housing and small buildings, 9.27.11. installation, 5.9.1.1., 9.27.3.6., 9.27.5. material standards, 5.9.1.1., 9.27.11.1.
Cladding, OSB and waferboard
clearances, 9.27.2.4., 9.27.10.4.
dimensions, 9.27.10.2.
housing and small buildings, 9.27.10. installation, 9.27.2.4., 9.27.3.6., 9.27.5., 9.27.10.3.,
9.27.10.4.
material standards, 5.9.1.1., 9.27.10.1.
Cladding, plywood
dimensions, 9.27.8.2.
housing and small buildings, 9.27.8. installation, 9.27.2.4., 9.27.3.6., 9.27.5., 9.27.8.3. material standards, 5.9.1.1., 9.27.8.1.
sealing, 5.6.2.1., 9.27.8.3., 9.27.8.4.
Cladding, stone, 9.20.6.6. Cladding, vinyl
housing and small buildings, 9.27.12. installation, 9.27.5., 9.27.12.2. material standards, 5.9.1.1., 9.27.12.1.
Cladding, waferboard (see Cladding, OSB and waferboard)
Cladding, wood shingles and shakes grades, 9.27.7.1.
housing and small buildings, 9.27.7. material standards, 5.9.1.1., 9.27.7.1.
Classification of buildings/building parts by major occupancy, 3.1.2.1., 9.10.2. for wind load calculations, 4.1.7.2.
Clearances
(see also Headroom clearance)
attic or roof spaces, 9.19.1.3.
chimneys, 6.3.3.1., 9.21.5., 9.25.3.3.
cladding above ground, 9.27.2.4.
cladding to roof, 9.27.2.4.
combustible framing, 9.22.9.3.
combustible material, 6.3.2.6., 9.22.9., 9.33.6.8. cooktops, 9.10.22.1.
cooling towers, 6.3.2.15.
crawl spaces, 9.18.4.1.
door frames, 9.27.9.5., 9.27.10.4.
ducts, 6.3.2.6., 9.22.9.4., 9.33.6.8.
electric ranges, 9.10.22.1.
furnace plenums, 6.3.2.6., 9.33.6.8.
furnaces, 6.2.1.5., 9.33.5.2.
gas-fired ranges, 9.10.22.1.
gas vents, 9.25.3.3.
above ground, 9.15.4.6., 9.27.2.4.
handrails, 9.8.7.5.
hardboard siding, 9.27.9.5., 9.27.10.4.
heating and air-conditioning equipment, 6.2.1.5.,
9.33.5.2.
ovens, 9.10.22.1.
pipes, 6.7.1.2., 9.33.8.3.
propane ranges, 9.10.22.1.
siding above ground, 9.27.2.4.
siding to roof, 9.27.2.4.
smoke chambers, 9.22.9.3. solid-fuel-burning appliances, 9.33.5.3.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Index
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 solid-fuel fired appliances, 6.2.1.5. stucco from ground, 9.28.1.4. supply ducts, 6.3.2.6., 9.33.6.8. unit heaters, 6.4.2.1.
vented products of combustion, 6.3.3.1. window frames, 9.27.9.5., 9.27.10.4. wood-frame construction, 9.23.2.2. wood above ground, 9.3.2.9., 9.23.2.3.
Climatic data, 1.1.3. Closures
(see also Doors; Windows)
chutes, 3.6.3.3.
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
door latches, 3.1.8.15., 3.4.6.16., 9.10.13.9. elevator shaft openings, 3.2.6.5.
exterior wall openings, 3.2.3.5.
fire dampers, 9.10.13.13.
fire-protection rating, 3.1.8.4., 3.1.8.5., 9.10.13.1. in fire separations, 3.2.8.2., 3.3.3.5., 9.10.9.3.,
9.10.13., 9.10.13.8.
glass blocks, 3.1.8.16., 3.2.3.5., 9.10.13.7. hold-open devices, 3.1.8.14., 9.10.13.11. installation, 3.1.8.5., 9.10.13.1.
protection of exit facilities, 3.2.3.13. self-closing devices, 3.1.8.13., 3.4.6.13., 9.9.6.7.,
9.10.13.10., 9.10.13.15. temperature limits, 3.1.8.17. twenty-minute, 3.1.8.12. unprotected openings, 3.2.3.1. wired glass, 3.1.8.16., 3.2.3.5.
Cold weather requirements
concrete, 9.3.1.9.
excavations, 9.12.1.3.
gypsum board, 9.29.5.10.
HVAC systems and equipment, 6.2.1.6., 9.33.4.5. masonry, 9.20.14.
stucco, 9.28.6.1. Collar ties, 9.23.14.7. Columns
anchorage, 9.23.6.2., 9.35.4.3.
carports, 9.35.3.4., 9.35.4.2., 9.35.4.3. concrete, 9.17.6.
fire-resistance rating, 9.10.8.3.
garages, 9.35.4.2., 9.35.4.3.
heavy timber construction, 3.1.4.7.
housing and small buildings, 9.17.
lateral support, 9.17.2.2.
masonry, 9.17.5.
steel, 9.10.14.5., 9.10.15.5., 9.17.3.
supported on masonry or concrete, 9.20.8.4. wood, 9.10.14.5., 9.10.15.5., 9.17.4.
Combustible cladding, 3.2.3.7., 9.10.14.5., 9.10.15.2. Combustible construction
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
exterior cladding, 3.1.4.8. fire-retardant-treated wood in, 3.1.4.5., 3.1.4.8. foamed plastics in, 3.1.4.2., 9.10.17.10.
heavy timber in, 3.1.4.6., 3.1.4.7.
materials permitted, 3.1.4.1.
projections, 9.10.12.4., 9.10.14.5., 9.10.15.5. raceways in, 3.1.4.4.
supports, 3.1.8.2., 9.10.9.8.
wires and cables in, 3.1.4.3. Combustible content, 3.2.8.8. Combustible dusts
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
and fire hose nozzles, 3.2.5.11. Combustible fibres
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
storage building classification, 3.1.2.6. Combustible gases
compressed, indoor storage, 3.3.6.3.
storage, 3.3.6.2. Combustible liquids
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
storage, 3.3.2.16., 3.3.4.3.
storage and dispensing rooms, 3.3.6.4.
Combustible materials
clearances to ducts, 3.6.5.6., 6.3.2.6., 9.33.6.8.
in combustible construction, 3.1.4.1.
in noncombustible construction, 3.1.5.2., 3.1.5.6.,
9.10.6. storage, 3.3.6.2.
Combustible piping
drain, waste and vent, 3.1.9.5., 9.10.9.7.
in noncombustible construction, 3.1.5.19.
in sprinkler systems, 3.1.9.5., 3.2.5.13., 9.10.9.6. in vacuum cleaning systems, 3.1.9.5.
for water distribution, 3.1.9.5., 9.10.9.6.
Combustible projections
exposing building face, 3.2.3.6., 9.10.14.5., 9.10.15.5. at firewalls, 3.1.10.7.
limiting distance, 3.2.3.6.
soffit protection, 3.2.3.16., 9.10.12.4.
Combustible refuse storage, 3.6.2.5.
Combustion venting, 6.3.3.1., 9.32.3.8. Commercial cooking equipment, 3.3.1.2., 6.3.1.7.,
9.10.1.4., 9.10.13.13.
Communication, voice (see Voice communication
systems) Compatibility
fasteners for cladding, 9.27.5.5.
resistance to deterioration, 5.1.4.2. Compliance
definition, 1.2.1.1.[A] Concealed spaces
fire blocks in, 3.1.11.1., 3.1.11.3., 3.1.11.4., 3.1.11.5., 3.1.11.7., 9.10.16., 9.10.16.1.
above fire separations, 3.1.8.3.
fire separations in, 3.6.4.2., 3.6.4.3., 9.10.9.10. insulation, 3.1.11.2.
Concrete
admixtures, 9.3.1.8.
aggregate for, 9.3.1.1., 9.3.1.4., 9.3.1.7. cantilevered precast steps, 9.8.10.
cellular, 9.20.2.4.
chimneys, 1.4.1.2.[A], 6.3.3.2., 9.21., 9.33.10.3. cold weather requirements, 9.3.1.9. columns, 9.17.6.
dampproofing, 9.13.2.3., 9.13.2.4., 9.13.2.5. design, 4.2.3.5., 4.2.3.6., 9.3.1., 9.4.1.1.
flues, 9.21.
Index National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 foundations, 4.2.3.5., 4.2.3.6., 9.15.
joints, 9.15.4.9.
mixes, 9.3.1.7.
plain, reinforced and prestressed, 4.3.3., 9.3.1. roof tiles, 9.26.2.1., 9.26.17.
slabs, for floors-on-ground, 9.16.4., 9.25.2.3., 9.33.6.7.
stairs, 9.8.9.2., 9.8.10.
standards for, 9.3.1.1., 9.3.1.3. strength, compressive, 9.3.1.6. structural design basis, 4.3.3.1. sulphate-resistant, 9.3.1.3.
surface finish, 9.16.4.1.
as thermal barrier, 3.1.5.14., 3.1.5.15. topping, 9.16.4.2., 9.23.4.4.
water used in, 9.3.1.5.
Concrete block, 9.15.2.2., 9.17.5.1., 9.20.2.6. Condensation control
air barrier systems, 9.25.3.1. in exhaust ducts, 6.3.2.10. and heat transfer, 5.3.1.2. properties, 9.25.5.1.
scope of Code, 5.1.1.1.
thermal insulation, 9.25.2.1. vapour barrier properties, 5.5.1.2. vapour barriers, 9.25.4.3.
Conditioned space, 1.4.1.2.[A] Conflicting requirements, 1.5.1.2.[A] Connected buildings, 3.2.6.3. Construction
relative to occupancy, 9.10.8.
types, 9.10.6.
Constructor, definition, 1.4.1.2.[A] Contained use areas
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
doors and door hardware, 3.3.1.13., 3.4.6.11.,
3.4.6.16.
fire alarm systems, 3.2.4.1.
fire annunciators, 3.2.4.8.
fire separations, 3.3.3.7.
smoke detectors, 3.2.4.11.
sprinkler system requirements, 3.2.2.19.
Contaminated air
minimum distances of air intakes from, 6.3.2.9. movement, 3.2.6.2., 3.2.6.3.
removal, 6.3.1.6., 6.3.2.14.
Continental seating, 3.3.2.4. Controls
barrier-free, 3.8.2.6., 3.8.3.8., 3.8.3.10., 3.8.3.16., 3.8.3.17.
location, 3.8.3.8. operation, 3.8.3.8. temperature, 9.33.4.3.
Convalescent homes
fire alarm systems, 3.2.4.3.
Convectors, 9.33.7.1.
Cooking equipment, commercial, 3.3.1.2., 6.3.1.7.,
9.10.1.4., 9.10.13.13. Cooktops
(see also Stoves)
clearances, 9.10.22.1., 9.10.22.2.
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
fans, 9.32.3.11.
hoods, 9.32.3.11.
installation, 9.10.22.1., 9.33.5.3. protection around, 9.10.22.3.
Coolers, walk-in, 3.1.4.2., 3.1.5.7., 9.10.17.10. Cooling systems and equipment
installation, 6.6.1.1., 9.33.9.1.
structural movement, 4.1.8.18., 6.2.1.4., 9.33.4.7. system pressure, 6.2.1.3., 9.33.4.6.
Cooling towers and sections, 6.3.2.15. Corbelling, 9.15.4.8., 9.20.12. Cornices, 3.1.11.5.
Corridors
(see also Public areas; Public corridors)
access to exit, 3.3.2.6., 9.9.7.
assembly occupancy, 3.3.2.6.
care, treatment or detention occupancy, 3.3.3.3.,
3.3.3.5.
dead-end, 3.1.8.17., 3.3.1.9., 3.3.3.3., 3.3.4.4., 9.9.7.3. dimensions, 3.3.1.9., 9.9.5.2.
doors opening into, 3.3.1.11., 9.9.6.1.
emergency lighting, 3.2.7.3.
fire separations, 9.10.9.15.
flame-spread rating, 3.1.13.6.
illumination, 3.2.7.1., 3.2.7.3.
loads on floor or roof, 4.1.5.3., 4.1.5.4. obstructions, 3.3.1.9., 9.9.5.2., 9.9.5.3., 9.9.6.1. paired doors in, 3.3.3.3.
serving patients’ sleeping rooms, 3.3.3.5.
sliding glass partitions, 9.6.1.4.
smoke detectors, 3.2.4.11.
temperature rise and area limits exception, 3.1.8.19. transparent doors in, 3.3.1.19.
transparent panels in, 3.3.1.19.
width, 3.3.1.9., 9.9.3.3., 9.9.5.2.
width, in dwelling units, 9.5.4.1.
windows in, 3.3.1.19.
Corrosion protection
(see also Corrosion resistance) pipes, 9.31.2.2.
service water heaters, 9.31.6.3. steel beams, 9.23.8.2.
steel lintels, 9.20.5.2.
Corrosion resistance
(see also Corrosion protection)
ducts, 6.3.2.3., 9.33.6.2., 9.33.6.7.
elements in environmental separators, 5.1.4.2. fasteners for cladding, 9.27.5.5.
masonry connectors, 9.20.16.1.
plumbing, 9.31.2.2.
screens and grilles, 6.3.2.9., 9.32.3.13.
service water heaters, 9.31.6.3.
Counters
for service to the public, 3.8.3.1., 3.8.3.19. for telephones, 3.8.3.20.
Coverings
ducts, 3.6.5.4., 6.3.2.5., 9.33.6.4. pipes, 6.3.2.5.
Crack control joints, 9.15.4.9.
Cranes, loads due to, 4.1.3.2., 4.1.5.11.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Index
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Crawl spaces
access, 3.6.4.6., 9.18.2.1., 9.18.4.1.
air barrier systems in, 9.18.1.3.
application of Code, 3.6.1.1.
clearance, 9.18.4.1.
drainage, 9.18.5.
fire blocks in, 3.1.11.1., 3.1.11.6.
fire resistance of floors over, 9.10.8.1., 9.10.9.4. fire separations, 3.3.1.4.
flame-spread rating, 9.18.7.1.
ground cover, 9.18.6.
heated, 9.13.4.2., 9.18.1.3., 9.33.3.1.
housing and small buildings, 9.18.
insulation, 9.18.1.3., 9.25.2.2., 9.25.2.3. regulated as basements, 3.2.2.9., 9.10.8.9. return-air inlets, 9.33.6.12.
supply outlets, 9.33.6.11.
unheated, 9.18.1.3.
vapour barrier in, 9.18.1.3.
ventilation, 6.3.1.2., 9.18.3.
as warm-air plenums, 9.18.7.1.
Curbs, repair and storage garages, 3.3.5.4., 9.8.8.4. Curtain walls (see Fenestration)
Curved roofs, snow and rain loads, 4.1.6.10. Cutting operations room, 3.3.1.25.
D
Dampers
(see also Fire dampers) access, 6.2.1.6., 9.33.4.4. adjustable, 9.33.6.9. fireplaces, 9.22.6.1.
Dampproofing
crawl spaces, 9.18.6.
floors, 9.23.2.3.
floors-on-ground, 9.13.2.1., 9.13.2.6.
foundations, 9.13.2.
installation, 9.13.2.4.
material standards, 5.9.1.1., 9.13.2.2.
preparation of surface, 9.13.2.3.
protection from groundwater, 5.7.3.4.
protection of interior finishes, 9.13.2.5., 9.20.13.9.,
9.23.2.3.
requirement for, 9.13.2.1.
walls, 9.13.2.1., 9.13.2.3., 9.13.2.4., 9.20.13.9.,
9.23.2.3. Dance halls
access to exit, 3.3.1.17.
principal entrances, 3.4.2.6. Dangerous goods
access openings, 3.2.5.1. definition, 1.4.1.2.[A] hazardous areas design, 3.3.6. process plants, 3.3.6.8., 3.3.6.9. storage, 3.3.6.2., 3.3.6.3.
Dead-end corridors, 3.1.8.17., 3.3.1.9., 3.3.3.3., 3.3.4.4., 9.9.7.3.
Dead loads, 1.4.1.2.[A], 4.1.3.2., 4.1.4., 9.4.3.1.
Decay, protection against, 9.3.2.9., 9.23.2.2., 9.23.2.3. (see also Deterioration)
Decking for wood shingled roofs, 9.26.9.1. Decks
foundations, 9.12.2.2. snow loads, 9.4.2.3. sprinkler systems, 3.2.5.12.
Declaration of construction work application, 2.2.7.1.[C] content, 2.2.7.4.[C]
form, 2.2.7.3.[C]
submission of the declaration, 2.2.7.2.[C] Deep foundations
damaged, 4.2.7.6.
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
design, 4.2.7.2.
installation, 4.2.7.5.
load testing, 4.2.7.2.
location and alignment, 4.2.7.3., 4.2.7.4.
Definitions of words and phrases, 1.4.1.2.[A], 4.1.3.1. Deflections
air barrier systems, 5.2.2.1., 5.4.1.1.
structure, 4.1.3.5., 4.1.8.13., 9.4.3.
Deformation resistance, 5.2.2.1., 9.12.2.2., 9.15.1.3. Depressurization, protection against, 9.32.3.8. Design
environmental separation, 5
HVAC systems, 6.2.1.1., 9.33.1.1., 9.33.4.1. structural, 4, 9.4.
Design calculations and analyses, 2.2.4.5.[C] Designer
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
of parts and components, 2.2.4.4.[C] signature requirements, 2.2.4.2.[C], 2.2.4.4.[C] structural, requirements for, 2.2.1.2.[C] subsurface inspection, 4.2.2.3., 4.2.2.4., 4.2.4.1.
Design temperatures
indoor, 5.2.1.2., 5.3.1.2., 5.5.1.2., 9.33.3.1. outdoor, 1.1.3.1., 5.2.1.1., 5.3.1.2., 5.5.1.2., 6.2.1.2.,
9.33.3.2., 9.33.5.1. Detectors
carbon monoxide, 6.3.1.4., 6.9.3.1., 9.32.3.8., 9.32.3.9.
fire, 1.4.1.2.[A], 3.2.4.4., 3.2.4.10.
heat, 1.4.1.2.[A], 9.10.18.3., 9.10.18.4.
smoke, 1.4.1.2.[A], 3.1.8.14., 3.2.4.8., 3.2.4.11.,
3.2.4.12., 3.2.4.14., 3.2.4.20., 3.2.4.21., 3.6.2.7.,
6.9.2.2., 9.10.18., 9.10.18.3., 9.10.18.4., 9.10.18.5. sprinklers installed in lieu of, 9.10.18.4.
Detention occupancy (see Care, treatment or detention occupancy)
Deterioration
(see also Decay, protection against) due to moisture, 5.5.1.2.
resistance to, 5.1.4.2., 9.20.16.1.
Diaphragms, earthquake design, 4.1.8.15. Differential movement
columns, 9.17.2.2.
decks and other accessible platforms, 9.12.2.2.,
9.23.6.2.
Index National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 elements in environmental separation, 5.1.4.1., 5.2.2.1.
metal and vinyl cladding, 9.27.5.6. Diffusers, 3.6.5.7., 9.33.6.10., 9.33.6.11.
(see also Air outlets)
Dining areas, loads, 4.1.5.6.
Direct-vented, 1.4.1.2.[A]
Dispensing rooms, flammable and combustible
liquids, 3.3.6.4.
Distilled beverage alcohol, 1.4.1.2.[A] Distilleries, 1.4.1.2.[A], 3.2.5.11.
Distribution panel, emergency lighting, 3.2.7.10. Domes, snow and rain loads, 4.1.6.10.
Door assemblies
as fire-protection closures, 3.1.8.5.
leakage rates, 3.1.8.4. Door frames
caulking, 9.20.13.11. sealant, 9.27.4.1.
steel, 9.10.13.6. thermal breaks, 9.7.3.3. wood, 9.10.13.3.
Doors
(see also Closures; Doorways)
action of, 9.9.6.4.
barrier-free path of travel, 3.8.3.6.
in bedrooms, 9.9.10.1.
containing foamed plastics, 3.1.4.2.
in corridors, 3.3.1.13., 3.3.3.3., 9.9.6.1., 9.10.13. dimensions, 3.3.3.4., 9.5.5., 9.9.6.3.
direction of swing, 3.3.1.11., 3.3.3.3., 3.4.6.10.,
3.4.6.12., 3.6.2.6., 9.9.6.5., 9.10.13.12.
between dwelling unit and garage, 9.10.13.15.
in dwelling units, 3.1.13.2.
emergency crossover access to floor areas, 3.4.6.18. for exits, 3.1.8.14., 3.4.5.1., 3.4.6.11., 3.4.6.12.,
3.4.6.16., 9.9.6.
exterior, 5.3.1.2., 5.4.1.2., 9.7.4.3., 9.7.5.2.
in fire separations, 3.1.8.12. - 3.1.8.15., 3.1.8.17.,
3.3.3.5., 9.10.13.
flame-spread rating, 3.1.13.2., 3.1.13.7., 9.10.17.1. force required to open, 9.9.6.8.
glass or transparent, 3.3.1.19., 3.4.1.8., 9.6., 9.6.1.3.,
9.9.4.3.
hardware (see Hardware for doors)
housing and small buildings, 9.7.
incinerator rooms, 3.6.2.6.
installation, 9.7.6.
at landings, 9.8.6.2.
manufactured and pre-assembled, 9.7.4.
in means of egress, 3.3.1.13., 3.4.6.10., 3.4.6.11.,
9.9.6., 9.9.7., 9.10.13.
in means of egress from dwelling units, 9.9.9. in means of egress from suites, 9.9.6., 9.9.7.4.,
9.9.7.6., 9.9.8.
near steps or stairs, 3.4.6.11., 9.8.6.2., 9.9.6.6. opening onto landings, 9.8.6.3. performance expectations, 9.7.3.
power operators, 3.8.2.7., 3.8.3.6. protection, 9.8.8.1.
resistance to forced entry, 9.7.5.2.
revolving, 3.4.6.15., 9.9.6.4.
service rooms, 3.6.2.6., 9.10.13.12.
site-built, 9.7.5.
sliding (see Sliding doors)
in smoke-tight barriers, 9.10.9.3.
of solid core wood, 9.10.13.
standards for, 5.3.1.2., 5.4.1.2., 9.7.4., 9.10.13.2. storage garages, 9.9.6.4.
storage suites, 9.9.6.4.
storm, 5.9.2.4., 9.6.1.4., 9.7.3.1., 9.7.3.3. temperature limits, 3.1.8.17.
thermal breaks, 5.9.2.4., 9.7.3.3.
thresholds, 3.3.1.13., 3.4.6.1., 3.8.3.6., 3.8.3.16. water-closet stalls, 3.8.3.11.
Door stops, 9.10.13.16. Doorways
(see also Doors)
barrier-free path of travel, 3.8.3.6.
bathrooms, 9.5.5.3.
dimensions, 3.3.3.4., 3.4.3.2., 9.5.5., 9.7.2.2., 9.9.6.2.,
9.9.6.3.
between dwelling unit and garage, 9.10.13.15. dwelling units, 9.5.5.1.
headroom clearance, 3.4.3.4.
at landings, 9.8.6.2., 9.8.6.3.
means of egress, 3.3.1.5.
means of egress from dwelling units, 9.9.9. means of egress from suites, 3.3.1.3., 3.3.1.5.,
9.9.7.2., 9.9.7.4., 9.9.7.6., 9.9.8. near stairs, 9.8.6.2. obstructions, 9.9.6.1., 9.9.6.3.
at ramp landings, 9.8.6.3. secondary suites, 9.5.5.1. service rooms, 9.9.5.9.
water closet rooms, 9.5.5.2.
width, 3.3.3.4., 3.4.3.2.
Downspouts, 5.6.2.2., 9.14.6.5., 9.26.18.1. Draft stops, 3.2.8.6.
Drainage
above-ground masonry walls, 9.20.13.9. building envelopes, 5.6.2.2.
crawl spaces, 9.18.5.
disposal, 5.6.2.2., 9.14.5.
evacuation site, 9.14.4.3.
floors, 9.16.3.3.
floors-on-ground, 9.16.3.
footings, 9.14.
foundations, 9.14.2., 9.35.3.3.
granular layer installation, 9.14.4.2., 9.14.4.4. granular layers, 9.14.2.1., 9.14.4.
granular material, 9.14.4.1.
housing and small buildings, 9.14. pipes, 9.14.3.
pipes and tiles installation, 9.14.3.3. roofs, 5.6.2.2., 9.26.18.
second plane of protection, 9.27.3. surface water, 5.7., 9.12.3.2., 9.14., 9.14.6. tiles, 9.14.3.
underground ducts, 6.3.2.12., 9.33.6.7.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Index
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Drainage systems, sanitary, 1.4.1.2.[A], 9.31., 9.31.2.1., 9.31.5.
(see also Plumbing) Drain pans, 6.3.2.2. Drains
floors, 9.31.4.3.
from noncombustible water closets, 9.10.9.7. roofs, 5.6.2.2., 9.26.18.2.
Drain, waste and vent piping, 3.1.9.5., 9.10.9.7. (see also Plumbing)
Draperies, in exits, 9.9.5.6.
Drift limits, earthquake design, 4.1.8.13. Drilling of framing members, 9.23.5.1. Drinking fountains, 3.8.2.8., 3.8.3.10. Dry standpipes, 3.2.5.9.
Dry wells, 9.14.5.3.
Ducts
access, 3.6.4.5., 6.2.1.6., 9.33.4.4. access openings, 6.3.2.4. adhesives, 3.6.5.4., 9.33.6.4.
air filters in, 6.8.1.3. aluminum, 9.33.6.5.
in ceiling spaces, 3.1.9.6., 9.10.5.1.
cleaning, 6.2.1.6., 9.33.4.4.
clearances, 3.6.5.6., 6.3.2.6., 9.22.9.4., 9.33.6.8. combustible, 3.6.5.1., 9.33.6.2.
in or beneath concrete slabs, 9.33.6.7. connections, 6.3.2.4., 9.33.6.6., 9.33.6.7. connectors, 3.6.5.1., 6.3.2.3., 6.3.2.18., 9.33.6.2. construction, 9.33.6.6.
for cooking equipment, 3.1.8.8., 3.1.8.9.
coverings, 3.6.5.4., 6.3.2.5., 9.10.17.12., 9.33.6.4. design, 6.2.3., 9.33.6.1., 9.33.6.5.
dimensions, 9.32.3.11.
drainage, 6.3.2.12., 9.33.6.7.
drain pans, 6.3.2.2.
exhaust (see Exhaust ducts)
in exits, 6.9.2.4.
in fire-rated assemblies, 3.1.9.6., 9.10.5.1., 9.10.9.6. fire stops, 9.33.6.6.
fittings, 6.3.2.3., 9.32.3.11., 9.33.6.2., 9.33.6.5. galvanized, 9.33.6.5.
installation, 6.2.3., 9.33.6.1., 9.33.6.7.
insulation, 3.6.5.4., 6.3.2.5., 9.32.3.11., 9.33.6.4. interconnection, 6.3.2.7., 9.33.6.7.
joints, 6.3.2.4., 9.32.3.11., 9.33.6.3., 9.33.6.6., 9.33.6.7. leakage, 6.3.2.7.
linings, 3.6.5.4., 6.3.2.5., 9.10.17.12., 9.33.6.4. materials, 6.3.2.3., 9.32.3.11., 9.33.6.2.
metal, 9.33.6.5.
noncombustible, 3.1.8.8., 3.1.8.9., 3.6.5.1.
in noncombustible construction, 3.1.5.18. penetrating fire blocks, 9.10.16.4.
penetrating fire separations, 3.1.8.7., 3.1.8.8.,
3.1.8.9., 3.1.9.2., 9.10.9.6., 9.10.13.13. penetrating fire stops, 3.1.11.7.
return air systems, 1.4.1.2.[A], 3.6.5.8., 6.3.2.11.,
9.33.6.7., 9.33.6.13.
sealing, 3.6.5.3., 6.3.2.19., 9.32.3.11., 9.33.6.3.,
9.33.6.7.
smoke detectors in, 6.9.2.2.
supply, 9.32.3.11., 9.33.6.7.
systems, 6.2.3., 9.33.6.
trunk, 9.33.6.7.
underground, 6.3.2.12., 9.33.6.7. ventilation, 6.2.3., 9.32.3.11., 9.33.6.2.
Duct-type smoke detectors, 3.2.4.12. Dumbwaiters, 3.5.1.1., 3.5.2.1., 3.5.3.2. Dusts, hazardous, 6.9.1.2.
Dwelling units
(see also Housing and small buildings) alarm audibility, 3.2.4.18.
combustible projections, 3.2.3.6., 9.10.14.5. definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
doors in means of egress, 9.9.6. door swing, 3.4.6.12., 9.9.6.5. doorways, 9.5.5., 9.9.6.2., 9.9.6.3. egress, 3.3.4.4., 9.9.9.
electrical outlets, 9.34.2.2.
exception for combustible projections, 9.10.15.5. fire alarms, 9.10.18.2.
fire alarm systems, 3.2.4.1.
fire detectors, 3.2.4.10.
fire protection, 3.2.2.47. - 3.2.2.54., 9.10. fire-protection closures, 3.1.8.5.
fire-resistance rating, 9.10.8.10.
fire separations, 3.3.4.2., 9.9.4., 9.10.9.4., 9.10.9.11.,
9.10.9.12., 9.10.9.14.
firewalls, 9.10.11.2.
floors-on-ground, 9.16.1.3.
guards, 3.3.4.7., 9.8., 9.8.8.
hallways, 9.5.4.1.
handrails, 3.3.4.7., 9.8., 9.8.7.
height of rooms and spaces, 3.7.1.1., 9.5.3. landings, 9.8.6., 9.8.6.3.
manual fire alarm stations, 3.2.4.16. ramps, 9.8., 9.8.5.2.
secondary suites, 9.1.2.1.
in self-service storage buildings, 3.9.3.1. shared egress facilities, 9.9.9.3.
smoke alarms, 3.2.4.20., 9.10.19.
sound control, 3.3.4.6., 5.8.1.1., 9.11.
spatial separation between houses, 9.10.15. sprinkler systems, 3.2.5.12.
stairs, 3.3.4.7., 9.8.
travel limit to exits, 9.9.9.1.
uniformity of runs in flights with mixed treads,
9.8.4.5.
water closets, 9.31.4.1.
Dynamic procedure
earthquake load and effects calculations, 4.1.8.12. wind load calculations, 4.1.7.8.
E
Earthquake design
accidental torsional effects, 4.1.8.12. analysis, 4.1.8.1., 4.1.8.7.
anchorage of building frames, 9.23.6.1. bracing to resist lateral loads, 9.23.13. building strength and stability, 4.1.3.2.
Index
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 deflections, 4.1.8.13.
direction of loading, 4.1.8.8.
dynamic analysis, 4.1.8.12.
equivalent static force analysis, 4.1.8.11.
fasteners for sheathing or subflooring, 9.23.3.5. foundations, 4.1.8.16., 4.1.8.17.
joints in top plates of loadbearing walls, 9.23.11.4. masonry walls, 9.20.1.2., 9.20.15.
notation, 4.1.8.2.
requirements, 4.1.8.3.
roof sheathing, 9.23.16.1.
seismic force reduction factors and system
overstrength factors, 4.1.8.9.
seismic isolation, 4.1.8.19., 4.1.8.20.
site properties, 4.1.8.4.
special provisions, 4.1.8.10., 4.1.8.15.
structural irregularities, 4.1.8.6.
structural separation, 4.1.8.14.
supplemental energy dissipation, 4.1.8.21., 4.1.8.22.
Eave projections, 9.10.14.5., 9.10.15.5., 9.26.5. Eave protection, 9.26.2.1., 9.26.5.1., 9.26.5.2. Egress (see Doors; Doorways; Means of egress) Egress doorways, 3.3.1.5., 3.3.1.6.
Electrical conductors protection of, 3.2.7.10. tests, 3.2.7.10.
Electrical equipment, 3.6.1.2., 9.33.5.2., 9.34. Electrical equipment vaults, 3.6.2.7.
Electrical supervision, fire alarm systems, 3.2.4.9. Electrical wiring
exit signs, 3.4.5.2.
housing and small buildings, 9.34. service facilities, 3.6.1.2.
Electric cables, storage, 3.3.6.2.
Electromagnetic locking device, 3.3.1.13., 3.4.6.16.,
3.4.6.18., 9.9.6.7.
Elevating devices, 3.8.2.3., 3.8.3.7.
Elevator cables, 3.1.5.22.
Elevator cars, flame-spread rating, 3.1.13.11. Elevators
application of Code, 3.5.1.1.
barrier-free path of travel, 3.3.1.7., 3.8.2.3., 3.8.3.2.,
3.8.3.7.
dimensions, 3.5.4.1.
earthquake design, 4.1.8.18.
emergency operation, 3.2.6.4., 3.2.7.9.
emergency recall, 3.2.4.14., 3.2.6.4.
for firefighters, 3.2.6.5., 3.2.7.9.
fire protection, 9.10.1.3.
flame-spread rating, 3.1.13.7.
high buildings, 3.2.7.9.
hoistway noise, 5.8.1.1.
hoistways, 3.2.6.4., 3.2.6.6., 3.2.8.4., 3.5.3.1., 3.5.3.3.,
3.5.4.2., 9.10.18.4.
machine rooms, 3.2.1.1., 3.2.2.14., 3.2.5.12., 3.5.3.3. not a means of egress, 9.9.2.3.
smoke detectors, 3.2.4.11., 3.2.4.14.
standards, 3.5.2.1., 3.8.3.7.
Emergency cables and conductors, 3.2.7.10. Emergency elevators, 3.2.6.4., 3.2.6.5., 3.2.7.9.
Emergency lighting, 3.2.7.3., 3.2.7.4., 3.2.7.10., 9.9.12., 9.9.12.3.
Emergency power supply exit signs, 9.9.11.3. installation, 3.2.7.5., 3.6.2.8. lighting, 3.2.7.4., 9.9.12.3. smoke alarms, 9.10.19.4.
Emergency return, elevators, 3.2.4.14., 3.2.6.4. Energy efficiency, 11
Entrances, barrier-free, 3.8.2.2.
Environmental loads, 5.1.4.1., 5.2.1., 5.2.1.3., 5.9.3.2. Environmental separation
air leakage, 9.25., 9.25.3. application of Code, 5
compliance with standards, 5.9.1.1. condensation control, 9.25.
crawl spaces, 9.18.
dampproofing, 9.13., 9.13.2.
drawings and specifications, 2.2.5.2.[C] fire (see Fire separations)
heat transfer, 9.25., 9.25.2.
roof spaces, 9.19.
soil gas control, 9.13., 9.13.4.
sound control, 5.8.1., 9.11. waterproofing, 9.13., 9.13.3.
Equipment
air-conditioning, 9.33.5.
characteristics, 1.2.2.1.[A]
cooking, 3.3.1.2., 6.3.1.7., 9.10.1.4., 9.10.13.13. electrical installations, 9.33.5.2., 9.34.1.1. HVAC, 6.1.1.2., 9.33.1.1., 9.33.5.
loads on floors and roofs, 4.1.5.3.
odour removal, 9.33.6.14.
space cooling, 9.33.5.2., 9.33.9.
space heating, 9.33.5.2.
storage, 1.2.2.2.[A]
used, 1.2.2.3.[A]
Escalators, 3.2.8.2., 3.5.1.1., 3.5.2.1., 3.8.2.4., 9.10.1.3. earthquake design, 4.1.8.18.
Evaporative air coolers, 6.3.2.16. Evaporative condensors, 6.3.2.15. Evaporative cooling towers, 6.3.2.15. Evaporative fluid coolers, 6.3.2.15. Excavations
backfill, 9.12.3.
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
depth, 9.12.2.
design of, 4.2.5.1.
erosion, 4.2.5.6.
grading, 9.14.4.3.
housing and small buildings, 9.12.
native soil, 9.12.1.1.
organic material, 9.12.1.1.
protection from freezing, 4.2.5.7., 9.12.1.3. structural design, 4.2.5.
support of, 4.2.5.3.
water control, 4.2.5.5.
water in, 9.12.1.2.
Exhaust
capacity, 9.32.3.3., 9.32.3.4., 9.32.3.7. discharge, 6.3.2.10.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Index
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 fans, 9.32.3.7.
to garages, 6.3.2.10.
intakes, 9.32.3.3., 9.32.3.5., 9.32.3.7.
outlets, 3.6.5.7., 6.3.2.10.
systems, 3.2.6.6., 3.2.8.7., 3.3.1.20., 9.10.9.18.
Exhaust air openings, 6.3.2.9. Exhaust ducts
combining, 6.3.2.10.
condensation, 6.3.2.10.
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
fire dampers in, 9.10.13.13.
fire dampers waived, 3.1.8.8.
insulation, 6.3.2.5., 9.32.3.11., 9.33.6.4. interconnection, 6.3.2.7., 6.3.2.10.
laboratory enclosures, 6.3.4.3.
serving cooking equipment, 6.3.2.10.
serving laundry equipment, 6.3.2.10., 9.32.1.3. serving more than one fire compartment, 9.10.9.18. smoke dampers waived, 3.1.8.9.
vertical service spaces, 3.6.3.4.
Exhibitions, 3.1.2.3.
Existing buildings, application of Code, 1.1.1.1.[A] Exits
(see also Means of egress)
access to, 3.4.6.17., 9.9.7., 9.9.7.1.
aggregate width, 3.4.3.1., 3.4.3.2., 9.9.3.
appliances in, 9.9.5.7.
balconies, 3.4.4.1.
capacity, 3.4.3.2.
combustible glazing restrictions, 3.4.1.10. convergence, 3.4.1.2.
cumulative width, 3.4.3.2.
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
distance between, 3.4.2.3.
door hardware, 3.4.6.16., 3.4.6.17.
doors, 3.2.3.13., 3.4.3.3., 3.4.6.11., 3.4.6.13., 3.4.6.16.,
9.7.2.2.
door swing, 3.4.6.12.
ducts in, 6.9.2.4.
dwelling units, 3.3.4.4., 9.9.9.
emergency access, 3.4.6.18.
emergency lighting, 3.2.7.3., 9.9.12.
exterior passageways, 3.1.13.10., 3.4.1.5.
finish, interior, 9.10.17.
fire alarm systems, 3.2.4.1.
fire hose connections, 3.2.5.10.
fire separations, 3.4.4.1., 9.9.4.
from floor areas, 9.9.8.
general requirements, 9.9.2.
glass block in, 3.2.3.13., 9.9.4.3. - 9.9.4.7.
glass doors, 9.6., 9.9.4.3.
glass and transparent panels and doors, 3.4.1.8. guards, 3.4.6.6.
headroom clearance, 3.4.3.4., 9.8.2.2., 9.9.3.4.,
9.9.6.2.
horizontal, 3.4.1.4., 3.4.1.6., 9.9.2.1.
housing and small buildings, 9.9.
integrity, 3.4.4.4., 9.9.4.2.
interconnected floor space, 3.2.8.4., 3.4.3.2. landings, 9.8.1.3.
level, lowest, and smoke contamination, 3.2.6.2.
levels, 1.4.1.2.[A], 3.2.6.2.
lighting, 3.2.7.1., 9.9.12.
loads on floor or roof, 4.1.5.3. through lobbies, 3.4.4.2., 9.9.8.5. location, 3.4.2.5., 9.9.8.4.
manual fire alarm stations, 3.2.4.16. from mezzanine, 3.4.2.2., 9.9.8.6. minimum number, 3.4.2.1.
mirror restrictions, 3.4.1.9., 9.9.5.6.
number, 9.9.7.1., 9.9.7.2., 9.9.8.2., 9.9.9. obstructions, 3.4.6.11., 9.9.5., 9.9.5.5., 9.9.6.1.,
9.9.6.2., 9.9.11.2.
obstructions permitted, 3.4.3.3.
protected floor space, 3.2.8.5., 3.4.3.2. purpose, 9.9.2.2.
ramps, 3.4.5.2.
revolving doors, 3.4.6.15., 9.9.6.4.
rooms opening into, 3.4.4.4., 9.9.5.9., 9.9.8.5. secondary suites, 9.9.9.
separation, 3.4.1.2.
service rooms under, 3.6.2.2., 9.9.5.8.
signs, 3.4.5.1., 3.4.5.2., 9.9.11., 9.9.11.3.
smoke detectors, 3.2.4.11.
stairs, 3.4.5.2., 3.4.6.8., 3.4.6.9., 9.8.1.3., 9.8.2.1.,
9.8.3.1.
storage garages, 9.9.6.4.
storeys, 1.4.1.2.[A], 3.2.6.2.
travel distance, 3.4.2.1., 3.4.2.3., 3.4.2.4., 9.9.8.2. types, 3.4.1.4., 9.9.2.1.
visibility, 9.9.11.2.
wall openings near, 9.9.4.4.
weather protection, 3.4.6.11.
width, 3.4.3.3., 9.9.3.2., 9.9.3.3., 9.9.8.3. windows, 3.2.3.13., 9.7.2.2., 9.9.4.
wired glass in, 3.2.3.13., 9.9.4.3. - 9.9.4.6.
Expansion and contraction
elements in environmental separation, 5.1.4.1.,
5.2.2.1.
heating and cooling systems, 6.2.1.3., 9.33.4.6.,
9.33.8.1.
metal and vinyl siding, 9.27.5.6. piping, 6.7.1.1., 9.33.8.1. structural, 4.1.2.1.
Explosion venting, 3.3.1.20. Exposing building face
area, 3.2.3.2.
area and aspect ratio, 9.10.14.5.
area and location, 9.10.14.2., 9.10.15.2. construction, 3.2.3.7., 9.10.14.5., 9.10.15.5. definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
exits, 3.2.3.13.
fire resistance waived, 9.10.14.5., 9.10.15.5.
first storey facing a street, 9.10.14.4.
garage serving a dwelling unit, 9.10.14.5.
glazed openings, 9.10.15.2.
limiting distance, 3.2.3.5., 3.2.3.6., 3.2.3.7., 9.10.14.5.,
9.10.15.5.
low-hazard industrial occupancy (Group F,
Division 3), 3.2.3.11.
in noncombustible construction, 3.1.5.5. protection of, 3.2.3.8.
Index National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 restrictions on combustible projections, 3.2.3.6., 9.10.14.5., 9.10.15.5.
spatial separation between buildings, 9.10.14., 9.10.15.
structural members, 3.2.3.9.
unlimited openings, 3.2.3.10., 9.10.14.4., 9.10.15.4. unprotected openings, 3.2.3.1., 3.2.3.2., 3.2.3.12.,
9.10.14.4., 9.10.15.4.
Exterior areas, loads on, 4.1.5.5.
Exterior insulation finish systems, 5.9.4., 9.27.12. Exterior ornamentations
earthquake loads, 4.1.8.1. wind loads, 4.1.7.11.
F
Fabrics, for canopies and marquees, 3.1.16.1. Factories
loads on floor or roof, 4.1.5.3.
storage areas, 4.1.5.3.
Factory-built chimneys, 1.4.1.2.[A], 9.33.10.2. Factory-constructed buildings, 1.1.1.1.[A] Falsework, 4.1.1.3.
Fans
access, 6.2.1.6., 9.33.4.4. auxiliary, 9.32.3.4. bathrooms, 9.32.3.3. capacity, 9.32.3.3., 9.32.3.10. controls, 9.32.3.3.
cooktops, 9.32.3.7., 9.32.3.11.
dehumidistat, 9.32.3.3., 9.32.3.7.
emergency power supply, 3.2.7.9.
emergency stoppage, 3.2.6.2.
exhaust, 9.32.3.3., 9.32.3.5.
housing and small buildings, 9.32.3.
installation, 6.3.2.17., 9.32.3.3. - 9.32.3.5., 9.32.3.10. kitchens, 9.32.3.3., 9.32.3.7.
location, 6.3.2.17., 9.32.3.2.
noise, 9.32.3.2.
sound ratings, 9.32.3.10. standards for, 9.32.3.10. supplementary exhaust, 9.32.3.7. supply, 9.32.3.4., 9.32.3.5. vibration, 9.32.3.2.
Farm buildings
application of Code, 1.1.1.1.[A] definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
Fasteners
cladding, 9.27.5.4. dimensions, 9.27.5.4. gypsum board, 9.29.5.5. roofing, 9.26.2.3., 9.26.2.4. siding, 9.27.5.4.
standard for, 9.23.3.1. stucco, 9.28.3.1., 9.28.3.2.
Fastening
cladding, 9.27.5.4.
furring, 9.29.3.2.
gypsum board, 9.29.5.8., 9.29.5.9. hardboard finish, 9.29.7.3.
plywood finish, 9.29.6.3.
sheathing, 9.23.3.5.
shingles, 9.26.7.4., 9.26.8.4., 9.26.8.5.
siding, 9.27.5.4.
steel framing, 9.24.3.6.
steel studs, 9.24.1.4.
stucco lath, 9.28.4.6.
subflooring, 9.23.3.5.
underlay, 9.30.2.3.
wood-frame construction, 9.23.3.
wood shingles and shakes, 9.26.9.5., 9.26.10.3.
Faucets and other bathroom accessories, 3.7.2.3., 3.7.2.9., 3.8.3.8., 3.8.3.11., 3.8.3.15., 3.8.3.17.
Fenestration
(see also Windows)
airtightness, 5.9.3.4.
heat transfer, 5.9.3.3.
resistance to water penetration, 5.9.3.5. structural and environmental loads, 5.9.3.2. types, 5.9.3.1.
water penetration, 5.9.3.5.
Fibreboard
fastening, 9.29.8.3.
installation, 9.29.8.3., 9.29.8.4.
as insulating finish, 9.29.8.
material standard, 9.29.8.1.
nailing, 9.29.8.3.
as roof sheathing, 9.23.16.7. thickness, 9.29.8.2.
as wall sheathing, 9.23.17.2., 9.23.17.3.
Fill
(see also Backfill; Backfilling)
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
beneath floors-on-ground, 9.16.2.1., 9.16.2.2. beneath footings, 9.15.3.2.
beneath foundations, 4.2.4.13.
Filters, air, 6.8.1.3., 9.33.6.14. Finishes
interior (see Interior finishes)
slip-resistant, 3.4.6.1.
Fire alarm and detection systems
annunciators, 3.2.4.8.
audibility, 3.2.4.18., 3.2.4.21.
audible alert and alarm signals, 3.2.4.17.
central alarm and control facility, 3.2.6.7.
central vacuum shutdown, 3.2.4.13.
continuity, 3.2.4.2.
design, 9.10.18.3.
and door hold-open devices, 3.1.8.14.
electrical supervision, 3.2.4.9.
emergency power supply, 3.2.7.8.
fire detectors, 3.2.4.4., 3.2.4.10.
fire separations for, 3.6.2.8.
installation, 3.2.4.1., 3.2.4.5., 9.10.18.3.
manual stations, 3.2.4.16.
requirements, 9.10.18.
residential fire warning systems, 3.2.4.21., 9.10.19.8. signal devices, 3.2.4.18.
signals to fire department, 3.2.4.7.
silencing, 3.2.4.6.
single stage systems, 3.2.4.3., 3.2.4.4., 3.2.4.7.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Index
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 smoke alarms, 3.2.4.20.
smoke detectors, 3.2.4.11., 3.2.4.12., 9.10.18.,
9.10.18.5.
sprinkler systems, 3.2.4.8.
testing, 3.2.4.5.
two-stage systems, 3.2.4.3., 3.2.4.4., 3.2.4.7. types, 3.2.4.3.
vacuum cleaning systems, 9.10.18.7. visual signal devices, 3.2.4.19.
voice communication systems, 3.2.4.22. waterflow trigger, 3.2.5.14.
Fire blocks
(see also Fire stops)
in concealed spaces, 3.1.11., 9.10.16.
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
in eave overhangs, 3.2.3.16.
in floor assemblies, 3.1.11.5.
in mansard and gambrel roofs, 3.1.11.5., 9.10.16.1. materials, 3.1.11.7., 9.10.16.3.
in noncombustible construction, 3.1.5.2., 3.1.11.3. pipes and ducts in, 9.10.16.4.
in roof assemblies, 3.1.11.5., 3.1.11.7.
in walls/wall assemblies, 3.1.11.2., 9.10.16.2.
Fire chambers, 9.22.4. Fire compartments
annunciators, 3.2.4.8.
basements, 3.2.1.5.
combustible sprinkler piping, 3.2.5.13. definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
exits, 3.2.3.13.
exposing building face area, 3.2.3.2. unprotected openings, 3.2.3.1.
wall exposed to another wall, 3.2.3.14.
Fire curtains, 3.3.2.14. Fire dampers
(see also Dampers) access, 3.1.8.10.
as closures, 3.1.8.5. definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
in ducts, 9.10.13.13.
in fire separations, 3.1.8.7. in HVAC systems, 6.9.2.1. installation, 3.1.8.10. leakage rates, 3.1.8.4.
in non-loadbearing walls, 9.24.3.7. penetrating fire separations, 9.10.9.6. waived, 3.1.8.8.
Fire department
access routes, 3.2.5.4., 3.2.5.6. limiting distance, 9.10.15.3. signals to, 3.2.4.7., 3.2.4.9., 3.2.6.7.
Fire department connections on buildings, 3.2.5.5., 3.2.5.9., 3.2.5.15.
Fire detectors, 1.4.1.2.[A], 3.2.4.4., 3.2.4.10. Fire escapes
access, 3.4.7.3.
balconies, 3.4.7.3. closures, 3.4.7.4. construction, 3.4.7.2. dwelling units, 3.4.7.3. existing buildings, 3.4.7.1.
guards, 3.4.7.6.
handrails, 3.4.7.6.
headroom, 3.4.7.5.
landings, 3.4.7.7.
loads on, 4.1.5.3.
as means of egress, 3.4.1.4., 9.9.2.3. protection of, 3.4.7.4.
scope of Code, 3.4.7.1.
stairs, 3.4.6.8., 3.4.7.5.
Fire extinguishers, 3.2.5.16., 9.10.20.4.
Fire extinguishing systems, industrial occupancies,
3.3.5.2.
Firefighters, 3.2.6.2., 3.2.6.5., 3.2.8.7. Firefighting (see Access for firefighting) Firefighting services (see Fire department) Fire hose cabinets, 3.2.5.11.
Fire hose nozzles, 3.2.5.11.
Fire hose stations, 3.2.5.11.
Fire load, 1.4.1.2.[A], 3.2.2.89., 3.2.3.11. Fireplaces
chimneys, 9.21.2.5., 9.21.2.6. clearances, 9.22.9. combustion air, 9.22.1.4. concrete materials, 9.22.1.2. dampers, 9.22.6.1.
design and installation, 6.9.4.2. factory-built, 9.22.8.
fire chamber, 9.22.4.
footings, 9.22.1.3.
hearth, 9.22.5.
housing and small buildings, 9.22., 9.33.5.4. inserts, 9.22.10.
liners (see Liners, fireplace)
masonry materials, 9.22.1.2.
protection against depressurization, 9.32.3.8. smoke chambers, 9.22.7.
walls, 9.22.3.
Fire protection
air-supported structures, 3.1.6.
building classification, 3.1.2.
combustible construction, 3.1.4.
commissioning of life safety and fire protection
systems, 9.10.1.2.
components, 2.2.3.[C], 3.1.1.4.
cooktops, 9.10.22.
crawl spaces, 9.18.7.
dwelling units, 9.10.
electric ranges, 9.10.22.
electrical conductors, 3.2.7.10.
exceptions, 3.2.2.3.
exits, 9.9.4.
fire-resistance ratings, 3.1.7.
fire safety plan, 1.1.4.
gas ranges, 9.10.22.
limiting distance and spatial separation between
buildings, 3.2.3.1.
multiple occupancy requirements, 3.1.3. noncombustible construction, 3.1.5.
ovens, 9.10.22.
penetrations in fire separations and fire-rated
assemblies, 3.1.9.1.
Index
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 propane ranges, 9.10.22. structural, 3.2.2.3. structural members, 3.2.3.9. tents, 3.1.6.
testing of integrated fire protection and life safety systems, 9.10.1.2.
tests, 3.2.9.1. Fire-protection rating
of closures, 3.1.8.4., 3.1.8.5.
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
of doors, 3.1.8.12.
exceptions, 9.10.13.2., 9.10.13.5., 9.10.13.7. of fire dampers, 3.1.8.7.
tests, 3.1.8.4., 9.10.3.1.
Fire protection systems, 3.2.5.17., 9.10.18., 9.10.20.5. Fire pumps, 3.2.4.9., 3.2.5.9., 3.2.5.18., 9.10.1.3. Fire-resistance ratings
about, 9.10.3.
arena-type building roof assemblies, 3.2.2.17. ceilings, 9.10.3.3.
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
determination of, 3.1.7.1., 9.10.3.1.
doors, 5.3.1.2.
exemptions, 9.10.8., 9.10.8.11., 9.10.14.
exits, 9.9.4.2.
exposing building face, 3.2.3.7.
fire separations, 3.1.7.3.
firewalls, 3.1.7.3., 3.1.10.2., 9.10.3.3.
floors and floor assemblies, 3.1.7.3., 3.2.1.4.,
9.10.3.1., 9.10.3.3., 9.10.8.
membrane ceilings, 9.10.3.4.
minimum, 3.1.7.4.
relation to occupancy and height, 9.10.8. roofs, 9.10.8.
separation of suites, 3.3.1.1., 9.10.9.13., 9.10.9.14. steel framing, 9.24.2.4., 9.24.3.2.
supporting construction, 3.1.7.5., 9.10.8.3.
test methods, 9.10.3.1.
vertical fire separations, 9.10.3.3.
walls, 9.10.3.3.
walls, exterior, 3.1.7.2., 3.1.7.3., 3.2.3.7., 3.2.3.11.,
9.10.3.1., 9.10.3.3., 9.10.14.5., 9.10.15.5. walls, interior, 9.10.3.1., 9.10.3.3.
walls, loadbearing, 3.1.7.5., 9.10.8.3. windows, 5.3.1.2.
Fire-retardant-treated wood
in assembly occupancy (Group A, Division 2),
3.2.2.25.
in assembly occupancy (Group A, Division 3),
3.2.2.32.
in business and personal services occupancy
(Group D), 3.2.2.60.
in combustible construction, 3.1.4.5., 3.1.4.8. for decorative cladding, 3.1.5.24.
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
in low-hazard industrial occupancy (Group F,
Division 3), 3.2.2.83.
in medium-hazard industrial occupancy (Group
F, Division 2), 3.2.2.76.
in mercantile occupancy (Group E), 3.2.2.66.
in noncombustible construction, 3.1.5.5., 3.1.5.12., 3.1.13.8.
in roof systems, 3.1.14.1. Fire safety
and building size, 3.2.1.1., 9.10.8.
in HVAC systems and equipment, 6.9.1.1., 9.33.6. and occupancy, 9.10.8.
self-service storage buildings, 3.9.2.
tests, 3.2.9.1.
Fire separations
airtightness of windows and doors in, 5.4.1.2. barrier-free floor areas, 3.3.1.7.
boarding and lodging houses, 9.10.9.14.
on building face, 3.2.3.2.
business and personal services occupancy, 3.3.1.1. care, treatment or detention occupancy, 3.3.3.1. closures in, 3.1.8.1., 3.1.8.4., 3.1.8.5., 9.10.13.
in combustible construction, 3.1.8.2.
containment in basements, 3.2.1.5.
continuity, 3.1.8.1., 3.1.8.3., 9.10.9.2., 9.10.11.2. crawl spaces, 3.2.2.9., 9.10.9.4.
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
and door hold-open devices, 3.1.8.14.
and door self-closing devices, 3.1.8.13. dumbwaiters, 3.5.3.2.
dwelling units, 3.3.4.2., 9.10.9.11., 9.10.9.12.,
9.10.9.13.
elevator machine rooms, 3.5.3.3.
elevators, 3.2.6.5., 3.5.3.1.
exits, 3.4.4.1., 9.9.4.
fire dampers in, 3.1.8.7.
fire-resistance rating, 3.1.7.3.
firewalls, 3.1.10.1.
floor assemblies, 3.3.4.2.
floors over basements, 3.2.1.4.
garages, 9.10.4.3., 9.10.9.16., 9.10.9.17.
horizontal, 3.1.8.8.
in horizontal service spaces, 3.1.8.3.
horizontal service spaces, 3.6.4.2., 9.10.9.10. industrial occupancy (group F), 3.3.5.1., 9.10.9.11.,
9.10.9.12., 9.10.9.16., 9.10.9.17. integrity, 9.10.9.3.
interconnected floor spaces, 9.10.9.5. interior walls, 9.10.12.3.
laboratory ventilation enclosures, 3.3.1.20. libraries, 3.3.2.13.
and major occupancy, 9.10.9.11., 9.10.9.16.,
9.10.9.17.
meeting of two exterior walls, 9.10.12.3. mercantile occupancy (group E), 3.3.1.1. mezzanines, 3.2.8.1.
and multiple occupancies, 3.1.3.1., 9.10.9.11.,
9.10.10.
between openings, 3.2.3.17.
openings in, 3.1.8.1., 3.1.8.6., 3.1.8.17., 3.2.8.2.,
9.10.13., 9.24.3.7.
openings protected by glass blocks or wired glass,
3.1.8.16.
operating, recovery and delivery rooms, 3.3.3.6. protected floor spaces, 3.2.8.5.
public corridors, 3.3.1.4., 9.10.9.15.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Index
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 rating, 9.10.3.
repair garages, 3.3.5.5.
residential occupancy (Group C), 3.2.2.47., 3.3.4.2.,
9.10.9.11., 9.10.9.12., 9.10.9.14.
roof-top enclosures, 3.2.2.14.
between rooms and spaces within buildings, 9.10.9. secondary suites, 9.10.9.4., 9.10.9.14., 9.10.9.15.,
9.10.10.4., 9.10.11.2., 9.10.12.3.
self-service storage buildings, 3.9.3.1. self-storage warehouses, 3.3.5.9.
service penetrations, 3.1.9.2. - 3.1.9.6., 9.10.9.6. service rooms, 3.6.2.1., 9.10.8.5., 9.10.10.
soffit protection, 9.10.12.4.
steel framing, 9.24.2.4., 9.24.3.7.
storage of dangerous goods, 3.3.6.2.
storage garages, 3.2.1.2., 3.3.4.2., 3.3.5.6., 3.3.5.7. storage rooms, 3.3.4.3., 9.10.10.6.
storeys below ground, 3.2.2.15.
suites, 3.3.1.1., 3.3.4.2., 9.10.9.13., 9.10.9.14. temperature rise and area limits, 3.1.8.19. theatre stages, 3.3.2.14.
thermal breaks in windows and doors in, 5.3.1.2. twenty-minute closures, 3.1.8.12.
vehicular passageways, 3.2.3.18.
vertical, 3.1.8.8., 3.1.8.9.
vertical service spaces, 3.6.3.1.
in vertical shafts, 3.1.8.3.
vestibules, 3.2.8.4.
walkways, 3.2.3.19., 3.2.3.20.
wall exposed to another wall, 3.2.3.14. watertightness of windows and doors in, 5.9.2.3. between zones in hospitals or nursing homes,
3.3.3.5.
Fire stop flaps, 1.4.1.2.[A], 3.6.4.3., 9.10.13.14. Fire stops
(see also Fire blocks)
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
in noncombustible construction, 3.1.5.2. pipes and ducts in, 3.1.9.5., 9.10.9.6., 9.33.6.6. and service penetrations, 3.1.9.1., 9.10.9.7.
Firewalls
combustible projections, 3.1.10.7.
construction, 9.10.11.
continuity, 3.1.10.3.
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
exemptions, 9.10.11.2.
exterior walls meeting at, 3.1.10.6.
and fire alarm systems, 3.2.4.2.
fire-resistance rating, 3.1.7.3., 3.1.10.2., 9.10.3.3.,
9.10.11.3.
maximum openings in, 3.1.10.5. mezzanines, 3.2.8.1.
parapets, 3.1.10.4.
party walls as, 9.10.11.1. penetrations in, 3.1.9.1.
separating buildings, 1.3.3.4.[A] structural stability, 3.1.10.1., 4.1.5.17. support of, 3.1.10.1., 4.1.5.17.
First storey, 1.4.1.2.[A], 3.2.2.15., 3.2.5.1., 3.2.8.2. Fixed seats, 3.3.2.4.
Fixed seats, bench type without arms, 3.3.2.8.
Flame-spread rating
bathrooms, 3.1.13.3., 9.10.17.11.
business and personal services occupancy, 9.10.17. combustible insulation, 9.10.17.10., 9.10.17.12. combustible piping, 3.1.5.19.
combustible skylights, 9.10.17.9.
corridors, 9.10.17.2., 9.10.17.5.
crawl spaces, 9.18.7.1.
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
diffusers and grilles, 9.33.6.10.
doors, 3.1.13.2., 9.7.2.2., 9.10.17.1.
ducts, linings and coverings, 9.10.17.12., 9.33.6.4. elevator cars, 3.1.13.7., 3.1.13.11.
exits, 3.1.13.2., 3.1.13.7., 3.1.13.8., 9.10.17.2. exterior exit passageways, 3.1.13.10., 9.10.17.4. fire-retardant-treated wood, 3.1.4.5.
firewalls, 9.10.11.3.
foamed plastic insulation, 3.1.5.15., 9.10.17.10. glazing, 3.1.5.4., 3.1.13.2., 9.10.17., 9.10.17.1.,
9.10.17.6., 9.10.17.9.
gypsum board, 9.29.5.2.
high buildings, 3.1.13.7.
industrial occupancy, 9.10.17.
insulation, 5.9.1.1., 9.25.2.2.
insulation in concealed spaces, 9.10.17. insulation in noncombustible construction,
3.1.5.14., 3.1.5.15.
interior finishes, 3.1.5.12., 9.10.17.
light diffusers and lenses, 3.1.13.4., 9.10.17.6.,
9.10.17.8.
lobbies, 3.1.13.2., 9.10.17.3.
mercantile occupancy, 9.10.17.
public corridors, 3.1.13.6., 9.10.17. residential occupancy, 3.1.13.3., 9.10.17. service rooms, 3.1.13.7., 9.10.17.
skylights, 3.1.5.4., 3.1.13.2., 9.7.2.2., 9.10.17.,
9.10.17.1., 9.10.17.6., 9.10.17.9.
tests, 3.1.12.1., 9.10.3.2.
vehicular passageways, 3.1.13.2. ventilated laboratory enclosures, 6.3.4.4. vestibules, 3.1.13.7.
windows, 9.7.2.2.
Flammable gases (see Combustible gases) Flammable liquids
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
door thresholds, 3.3.1.13., 3.4.6.1. piping for, in trench, 6.9.1.2.
storage, 3.3.2.16., 3.3.4.3., 3.3.6.2. storage and dispensing rooms, 3.3.6.4.
Flashing, chimney
caps, 9.21.4.6.
junctions with other materials, 9.21.4.10.
Flashing, doors, 9.7.6.2. Flashing, roof
built-up-roofing at cant strips, 9.26.11.10. built-up-roofing to masonry, 9.26.4.6. built-up-roofing to other than masonry, 9.26.4.7. at intersections, 9.26.4.
materials, 9.26.2.1., 9.26.4.2., 9.26.4.3. purpose, 9.26.1.2.
sealing and drainage, 5.6.2.1.
Index National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 shingles to masonry, 9.26.4.4.
shingles to other than masonry, 9.26.4.5. valley, 9.26.4.3.
Flashing, skylights, 9.7.6.2. Flashing, wall
cavity walls, 9.20.13.5., 9.20.13.6. fastening, 9.20.13.2.
installation, 9.20.13.3., 9.27.3.8. masonry veneer, 9.20.13.6. masonry walls, 9.20.13. materials, 9.20.13.1., 9.27.3.7. sealing and drainage, 5.6.2.1. stucco, 9.28.1.5.
Flashing, windows, 9.7.6.2., 9.20.13.3., 9.20.13.4. Flash point, 1.4.1.2.[A]
Flat roofs, wind loads, 4.1.7.6.
Flight, 1.4.1.2.[A]
(see also Stairs) Floor areas
barrier-free design, 9.5.2.
barrier-free path of travel, 3.3.1.7.
care, treatment or detention occupancy, 3.3.3.1. combination rooms, 9.5.1.2.
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
emergency access, 3.4.6.18.
general requirements, 3.3.1.
secondary suites, 9.1.2.1.
self-service storage buildings, 3.9.3.
separation of suites, 3.3.1.1.
termination, 9.10.12.1.
Flooring
ceramic tile, 9.23.15.5., 9.30.6.
finish, 9.30.1.4.
in hazardous materials storage area, 3.3.6.7. housing and small buildings, 9.30.
parquet, 9.30.4.
supports, 9.30.1.3.
underlay, 9.30.2.
water-resistant membranes, 9.30.1.2.
wood strip, 9.23.15.5., 9.30.3.
Floor joists, support of, 9.15.5.1. Floor numbers
Arabic numerals, 3.4.6.19., 9.9.11.5. elevator hoistways, 3.5.4.2.
exits, 3.4.6.19., 9.9.11.5.
Floors
acting as diaphragms, 4.1.8.15., 4.1.8.18. air barrier systems, 9.25.3.
anchorage, 9.20.11.1.
cantilevered, 9.23.9.9.
combustible elements in noncombustible
construction, 3.1.5.10.
concrete topping, 9.23.4.4.
dampproofing, 9.13.2.1.
drains, 9.31.4.3.
fire-resistance ratings, 3.1.7.3., 9.10.3.1., 9.10.8.1.,
9.10.8.8.
as fire separations, 9.10.9.4.
framing, 9.23.4.
garages, 9.35.2.2.
in heavy timber construction, 3.1.4.7.
joists, 9.23.4.1., 9.23.4.2., 9.23.4.4., 9.23.9. loads due to use of, 4.1.5.
loads on, 9.23.1.1., 9.23.4.1., 9.23.4.2., 9.23.4.4. subfloors, 9.23.15.
supports, 3.2.1.4., 9.30.1.3. thermal insulation, 9.25.1.1. vibrations, 4.1.3.6.
Floors-on-ground
concrete, 9.16.4.
dampproofing, 9.13.2.1., 9.13.2.6. drainage, 9.16.3.
hydrostatic uplift, 9.16.3.2.
in dwelling units, 9.16.1.3.
in housing and small buildings, 9.16. material beneath, 9.16.2.
soil gas control, 9.13.4., 9.25.3.6.
Flue collars, 1.4.1.2.[A]
Flue pipes, 1.4.1.2.[A], 9.21.1.2. Flues, chimney
connections, 9.21.2.2.
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
dimensions, 9.21.2.4., 9.21.2.5., 9.21.4.4. fireplace, 9.21.2.5.
inclination, 9.21.2.3.
masonry and concrete, 9.21.
oval, 9.21.2.6.
rectangular, 9.21.2.5.
round, 9.21.2.5.
slope, 9.21.2.3.
standard for, 9.21.2.
Foamed plastic
dampproofing, 9.13.2.5.
insulation, 3.1.5.14., 3.1.5.15., 3.6.3.2., 5.3.1.3.,
9.10.17.10., 9.25.2.2., 9.33.6.4.
in noncombustible construction, 3.1.5.2., 3.1.5.7.,
3.1.5.14., 3.1.5.15.
protection of, 3.1.4.2., 9.10.17.10. vapour barrier, 9.25.4.2.
Footbridges, 4.1.5.3. Footings
area for column spacing, 9.15.3.3., 9.15.3.4., 9.15.3.7. chimneys, 9.15.3.1., 9.21.4.3.
design, 9.4.4.1.
dimensions, 9.15.3.
drainage, 9.14.
fireplaces, 9.15.3.1., 9.22.1.3.
granular drainage layer, 9.14.4.
housing and small buildings, 9.15. non-loadbearing masonry walls, 9.15.3.6. projections, 9.15.3.8.
stepped, 9.15.3.9.
thickness, 9.15.3.8.
trenches, 9.12.4.1.
width, 9.15.3.3., 9.15.3.4., 9.15.3.5., 9.15.3.6., 9.15.3.8.
Forced-air furnace, 1.4.1.2.[A] Forced-air heating systems
(see also Ducts; Heating systems and equipment) coupled with heat recovery ventilators, 9.32.3.12. ventilation systems coupled with, 9.32.3.4. ventilation systems not coupled with, 9.32.3.5.
Formwork, 4.1.1.3.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Index
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Foundations
adfreezing, 4.2.4.4.
backfilling, 4.2.5.8., 9.12.3.
capacity in weaker soil or rock, 9.4.4.2.
of concrete, 4.2.3.5., 9.3.1.6., 9.3.1.7., 9.15.1.1.,
9.15.2., 9.15.4.
of concrete block, 9.15.4.2.
dampproofing, 9.13.2.
deep, 1.4.1.2.[A], 4.2.7.
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
for deformation-resistant buildings, 9.12.2.2.,
9.15.1.3.
depth, 4.2.4.4., 9.12.2.
design, 4.2.4., 9.4.4., 9.15.1.1.
drainage, 9.14.2., 9.35.3.3.
drawings and specifications, 2.2.4.6.[C], 2.2.4.7.[C],
4.2.2.2.
dynamic loading, 4.2.4.7.
earthquake design, 4.1.8.16., 4.1.8.17.
eccentric loading, 4.2.4.6.
equivalent approaches to design, 4.1.1.5. excavations, 4.2.5., 9.12.
extension above ground, 9.15.4.6.
on filled ground, 4.2.4.13.
of flat insulating concrete forms, 9.15.1.1., 9.15.3.3.,
9.15.4., 9.15.4.5.
footing size, 9.15.3.
frost action, 4.2.4.4., 9.12.2.2.
on frozen ground, 9.12.1.3.
for garages and carports, 9.35.3.
granular drainage layer, 9.14.4.
and groundwater level, 4.2.4.9., 9.4.4.3.
for housing and small buildings, 9.15.
hydrostatic pressure, 4.2.4.8., 9.16.3.2.
insulation, 9.25.2.2., 9.25.2.3.
lateral support, 9.15.4.2., 9.15.4.3., 9.15.4.4., 9.15.4.5. limit states design, 4.2.4.1.
loads, 4.2.4.1.
of masonry, 4.2.3.3., 4.2.3.4., 9.15.1.1., 9.15.2.,
9.15.4., 9.15.4.10.
materials, 4.2.3., 9.15.2.
movement, 4.2.4.1., 9.12.2.2.
on organic soils, 9.12.1.1.
on permafrost, 4.2.4.10., 9.15.1.2.
of permanent form material, 9.15.4.1.
pier type, 9.15.2.3.
protection from surface water, 5.7.1.1.
review, 4.2.2.3.
on rock, 9.15.3.1., 9.15.3.2.
shallow, 1.4.1.2.[A], 4.2.6.
site stability, 4.1.8.17.
on sloping ground, 4.2.4.5.
special, 4.2.8.
stairs with, 9.12.2.2.
of steel, 4.2.3.7.
structural design, 4.2.4.14.
subsurface investigation, 4.2.2.1., 4.2.4.2. supporting floor joists, 9.15.5.1.
on swelling and shrinking soils, 4.2.4.11., 9.4.4.4. thickness, 9.15.4.2., 9.15.4.7.
trenches beneath, 9.12.4.
vertical reinforcement, 9.15.4.6.
walls, 9.4.4.6., 9.15.4.
of wood, 4.2.3.1., 4.2.3.2., 9.15.1.1., 9.15.2.4.
for wood-frame construction, 9.15.1.1., 9.15.2.4.
Foundation units
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
drawing alterations, 2.2.4.7.[C]
Framing
anchorage, 9.23.6.
ceiling, 9.23.14.
drilling, 9.23.5.1.
maximum spans, 9.23.4.
notching, 9.23.5.2.
over openings, 9.23.12.
roof, 9.23.14.
sheet steel stud, 9.24.
supported on masonry or concrete, 9.20.8. trusses, 9.23.14.11.
wood-frame construction, 9.23.
Freezers, walk-in, 3.1.4.2., 3.1.5.7., 9.10.17.10. Freezing, protection from (see Protection from
freezing) Frost action
(see also Frost penetration, depth; Protection from freezing)
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A] floors-on-ground, 9.16.2.2.
soil under foundations, 9.4.4.4.
Frost penetration, depth, 1.1.3.2., 9.12.2.2. Fuel dispensing facilities, 3.3.5.8., 9.10.1.3. Fuel supply, shut-off valves, 3.2.7.7. Functional statements
application, 3.1.[A]
list of, 3.2.1.[A] Furnaces
capacity, 9.33.3.1., 9.33.5.1. clearances, 6.2.1.5., 9.33.5.2., 9.33.6.8. definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
forced-air, 1.4.1.2.[A]
installation, 6.2.1.6., 9.33.5.2. plenums, 9.33.6.6., 9.33.6.7., 9.33.6.8.
Furring
cladding, 9.27.5.3. dimensions, 9.29.3.1. fastening, 9.29.3.2. interior finish, 9.29.3. metal thickness, 9.24.1.3. nailing, 9.29.3.2.
stucco lath, 9.28.4.4.
G
Gable roofs
snow and rain loads, 4.1.6.9. wind loads, 4.1.7.6.
Galvanized sheet metal, 9.3.3.2. Gambrel roof
fire blocks, 9.10.16.1. venting, 9.19.1.4.
Index
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Garages
(see also Carports)
clear height, 3.3.5.4.
columns, 9.35.4.2., 9.35.4.3.
detached, 9.10.14.4., 9.10.14.5., 9.10.15.4., 9.10.15.5.,
9.35.3.3.
doors, 9.10.13.15.
for dwelling units, 9.7.5.2., 9.10.9.16., 9.35. exhaust discharge into, 6.3.2.10.
floors, 9.3.1.6., 9.35.2.2.
foundations, 9.35.3.
guards and guardrails, 9.8.8.4. interconnection of ducting, 6.3.2.7., 9.33.6.7. lighting, 9.34.2.6.
loads on floor or roof, 4.1.5.3.
open-air, 9.10.14.4.
pressure, 6.3.1.4.
repair (see Repair garages)
resistance to forced entry, 9.7.5.2.
storage (see Storage garages)
ventilation, 3.3.5.4., 6.3.1.4., 9.32.1.1.
walls, 9.35.4.1., 9.35.4.3.
Gas-burning equipment, installation standard, 6.2.1.5., 9.33.5.2.
Gases, hazardous, 6.9.1.2.
Gas mains, under buildings, 3.2.3.21. Gas vents
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
materials and installation, 9.33.10.1. sealing around, 9.25.3.3.
Girders, in heavy timber construction, 3.1.4.7. Glass
(see also Transparent panels) area limits, maximum, 9.6.1.3. design, 9.6.1.3.
doors, 3.3.1.19., 9.6.1.4., 9.7.5.2. earthquake design, 4.1.8.18.
in exits, 3.4.1.8.
in fire separations, 3.2.3.13., 5.3.1.2., 9.10.13.5. in guards, 9.8.8.7.
panels, 3.3.1.19.
public areas, 9.6.1.4., 9.7.5.
safety (see Safety glass)
sidelights, 9.6.1.4.
standards for, 5.9.1.1., 9.6.1.2., 9.6.1.3., 9.6.1.4.,
9.7.5.2., 9.8.8.7.
structural design basis, 4.3.6. structural strength, 9.6.1.3. thermal breaks, 5.9.2.4., 9.7.3.3. thickness, 9.6.1.3.
types of, 9.6.1.4.
wired (see Wired glass)
Glass blocks
area limits, 3.1.8.18.
as closures, 3.1.8.5., 9.10.13.7.
excluding, and temperature limits, 3.1.8.19. in exits, 9.9.4.3. - 9.9.4.6.
in fire separations, 3.1.8.16.
not to be used as closures, 3.2.3.5.
not in fireplaces or chimneys, 9.20.2.3. protection of exit facilities, 3.2.3.13.
reinforcing, 9.20.9.6.
in unprotected openings, 3.2.3.12., 9.10.14.4. Glass-reinforced polyester roofing, 9.26.14.1. Glazed architectural structures (see Fenestration) Glazed openings, 9.10.15., 9.10.15.2., 9.10.15.4. Glazing
in doors, 9.7.1.1.
exit restrictions, 3.4.1.10.
in fire separations, 3.1.8.16.
in noncombustible construction, 3.1.5.4.
in public areas, 9.8.8.1.
in unprotected openings, 3.2.3.12.
wired glass, 3.1.8.16., 3.1.8.18., 3.1.8.19., 3.2.3.5.
Glued-laminated timber
beams, 9.23.4.1., 9.23.4.2., 9.23.4.4. flooring, 3.1.4.7.
lintels, 9.23.12.3.
Grab bars
bathtubs, 3.7.2.9., 3.8.3.17. loads on, 9.31.2.3.
showers, 3.8.3.16.
universal washrooms, 3.8.3.12. washrooms, 3.7.2.8., 3.8.3.11.
Grade, 1.4.1.2.[A], 3.2.3.18., 3.2.5.1. Grading, site
backfill, 9.8.10.3., 9.12.3.2. environmental separation, 5.1.2.1. excavations, 9.14.4.3.
surface drainage, 9.14.6.
water control, 5.7.1.1., 9.16.3., 9.18.5.
Granular material
beneath floors-on-ground, 9.16.1.1., 9.16.2.1. beneath footings and foundations, 9.14.2.1., 9.14.4.
Ground cover
crawl spaces, heated, 9.18.6.2. crawl spaces, unheated, 9.18.6.1. warm-air plenums, 9.18.7.1.
Groundwater
around excavations, 4.2.5.5.
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
and foundations, 2.2.4.6.[C], 4.2.2.1., 4.2.2.4.,
4.2.4.3., 4.2.4.9.
level, 1.4.1.2.[A], 4.2.4.9., 9.4.4.3., 9.14.5.3., 9.15.3.4.,
9.16.3.1.
protection from, 5.7.3.
Group A occupancy (see Assembly occupancy) Group B occupancy (see Care, treatment or detention
occupancy)
Group C occupancy (see Residential occupancy) Group D occupancy (see Business and personal
services occupancy)
Group E occupancy (see Mercantile occupancy) Group F occupancy (see Industrial occupancy) Grout, 9.20.3.2.
Guards (devices)
balconies and decks, 4.1.7.5., 9.8.8.1., 9.8.8.3. cane-detectable, on doors, 3.8.3.6. definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
doorways, 9.8.8.1.
dwelling units, 3.3.4.7., 9.8.1. exits, 3.4.6.6.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Index
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 fire escapes, 3.4.7.6. fixed seats, 3.3.2.9. garages, 3.3.5.4., 9.8.8.4. glass, 9.8.8.7.
height, 3.3.1.18., 3.3.5.4., 3.4.6.6., 9.8.8.3. housing and small buildings, 9.8.8. industrial occupancies, 3.3.5.10. landings, 3.4.6.6., 9.8.8.3.
loads, 3.3.5.4., 4.1.5.14., 9.8.8.2., 9.8.8.4. means of egress, 9.9.1.1.
to not facilitate climbing, 9.8.8.6. openable windows, 3.3.4.8.
openings through, 3.3.1.18., 3.4.6.6., 3.4.7.6., 9.8.8.5. porches, 9.8.8.3.
as protection for vehicles, 4.1.5.15.
ramps, 3.4.6.6., 3.8.3.5., 9.8.8.1., 9.8.8.4.
secondary suites, 9.8.1.
stairs, 3.4.6.6.
where required, 9.8.8.1.
windows in public areas, 3.3.1.19. windows in residential occupancy, 9.8.8.1.
Gypsum board
application standard, 9.29.5.1.
on exposing building face, 3.2.3.7. fasteners for, 9.29.5.5.
fastening, 9.29.5.8., 9.29.5.9.
as fire separation in exit, 9.9.4.2.
as fire stop, 3.1.11.7.
installation, 9.29.5.3., 9.29.5.8., 9.29.5.9. as interior finish, 9.29.5.
material standard, 9.29.5.2.
in noncombustible construction, 3.1.5.13. standards, 9.10.9.2.
as thermal barrier, 3.1.5.14., 3.1.5.15.
as wall sheathing, 9.23.17.2., 9.23.17.3.
Gypsum lath, 9.29.4.1.
H
fastening, 9.29.7.3.
as insulating finish, 9.25.5.1.
as interior finish, 9.29.7.
material standards, 5.9.1.1., 9.27.9.1., 9.29.7.1. nailing, 9.29.7.3.
as siding, 9.27.2.4., 9.27.3.6., 9.27.9. thickness, 9.3.2.7., 9.29.7.2.
as underlay, 9.30.2.2.
as wall sheathing, 9.25.5.1.
Hardware for doors
access to exit, 3.3.1.13.
automatic locking devices, 3.3.4.5.
bolts, 9.7.5.2.
closers in barrier-free path of travel, 3.8.3.6. closures, 3.1.8.5.
door release devices, 3.3.1.13., 3.3.2.7., 3.4.6.16.,
9.9.6.7.
height, 3.4.6.16.
hinges, 9.7.5.2.
hold-open devices, 3.1.8.14., 9.10.13.11.
locks and latches, 3.3.1.13., 3.4.6.16., 3.4.6.17.,
3.4.6.18., 9.7.5.2., 9.9.6.7., 9.9.6.8., 9.10.13.9. power operators, 3.8.3.6.
self-closing devices, 3.1.8.13., 3.4.6.13., 9.9.6.7.,
9.10.13.10., 9.10.13.15.
strikeplates, 9.7.5.2.
on transparent doors and panels, 3.3.1.19. universal washrooms, 3.8.3.12.
Hatchways, 9.19.2.1., 9.25.3.3. Hazardous substances
explosion venting, 3.3.1.20.
fire detectors, 3.2.4.10.
fire protection, 9.10.1.3.
heat and smoke detection, 9.10.18.4. prohibited in basements, 3.3.5.3. safety within floor areas, 3.3.1.2. storage, 9.10.1.3.
Headroom clearance
access to exits, 9.9.3.4. doorways, 3.4.3.4., 9.5.5.1. exits, 3.4.3.4., 9.9.3.4. stairways, 3.4.3.4., 9.8.2.2.
Hearths, fireplace extensions, 9.22.5.1. standard for, 9.22.5. support, 9.22.5.2.
Heat detectors, 1.4.1.2.[A], 9.10.18.3., 9.10.18.4. Heating appliances
capacity, 9.33.3.1., 9.33.5.1.
design, 6.4.1.2., 9.33.5.3.
installation, 6.2.1.6.
installation standards, 6.2.1.5., 9.33.5.2., 9.33.5.3. location, 6.4.1.1.
Heating coils, service water heaters, 9.31.6.5. Heating systems and equipment
access, 6.2.1.6., 6.8.1.1., 9.33.4.4.
asbestos in, 6.2.1.7., 9.33.4.8.
capacity, 9.33.3.1., 9.33.5.1.
cleaning, 6.2.1.6., 9.33.4.4.
design, 6.2.1.1., 6.4.1.2., 9.33.1.1., 9.33.4.1., 9.33.5.3. drawings and specifications, 2.2.6.2.[C]
Hallways (see Corridors) Handrails
in aisles with steps, 3.3.2.10. attachment, 9.8.7.7. continuity, 3.4.6.5., 9.8.7.2. design, 9.8.7.7.
in dwelling units, 3.3.4.7., 9.8.1., 9.8.7.1. ergonomic design, 9.8.7.5.
graspability, 3.4.6.5., 9.8.7.5.
height, 3.4.6.5., 9.8.7.4.
in housing and small buildings, 9.8.7. loads, 3.4.6.5., 4.1.5.14., 9.8.7.7.
in means of egress, 9.9.1.1.
projecting into means of egress, 3.4.3.3. projecting into stair or ramp, 9.8.7.6. for ramps, 3.4.6.5., 3.8.3.5., 9.8.7.
in secondary suites, 9.8.1., 9.8.7. for stairs, 3.4.6.5., 3.4.6.9., 9.8.7. termination, 9.8.7.3.
Hardboard
as cladding, 9.27.2.4., 9.27.3.6., 9.27.5.
Index National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 fire safety characteristics, 6.9.1.1., 9.33.6.2. - 9.33.6.4. installation, 6.2.1., 9.33.1.1., 9.33.4.1.
installation standards, 6.2.1.1., 6.2.1.5., 9.33.5.2.,
9.33.5.3.
location, 6.4.1.1.
protection from freezing, 6.2.1.6., 9.33.4.5.
in residential buildings, 9.33.2.1. solid-fuel-burning, 6.2.1.5., 9.33.5.3.
structural movement, 4.1.8.18., 6.2.1.4., 9.33.4.7. system pressure, 6.2.1.3., 9.33.4.6.
temperature controls, 9.33.4.3.
Heating, ventilating and air-conditioning (HVAC) systems and equipment
access, 6.2.1.1., 6.2.1.6., 6.8.1.1., 9.33.4.4. application of Code, 6
asbestos in, 6.2.1.7., 9.33.4.8.
cleaning, 6.2.1.6., 9.33.4.4.
contaminant transfer prevention, 9.33.4.8. design, 6.2., 6.2.1.1., 6.4.1.2., 9.32.3.2., 9.33.1.1.,
9.33.4.1., 9.33.5.3.
drawings and specifications, 2.2.6.2.[C]
fire safety characteristics, 6.9.1.1., 9.33.6.2. - 9.33.6.4. humidification, 6.3.2.16.
installation, 6.2., 9.32.3.2., 9.33.1.1., 9.33.4.1. installation standards, 6.2.1.1., 6.2.1.5., 9.33.5.2.,
9.33.5.3.
outdoor design conditions, 6.2.1.2.
protection from freezing, 6.2.1.6., 9.33.4.5. structural movement, 4.1.8.18., 6.2.1.4., 9.33.4.7. system pressure, 6.2.1.3., 9.33.4.6.
Heat recovery ventilators balancing, 9.32.3.12. capacity, 6.3.1.5., 9.32.3.10. condensate, 9.32.3.12. installation, 6.3.1.5., 9.32.3.12. standards for, 9.32.3.10.
Heat transfer
application of Code, 5.1.1.1.
calculations and analyses, 5.2.1.3.
exterior insulation finish systems, 5.9.4.1. performance in doors, windows and skylights,
5.9.2.4., 9.7.3.2.
performance in other fenestration assemblies,
5.9.3.3.
and required thermal insulation, 9.25.2.1. thermal resistance of assemblies, 5.3.1., 5.3.1.2.
Heavy timber construction
assembly occupancy (Group A, Division 1),
3.2.2.21.
assembly occupancy (Group A, Division 3),
3.2.2.30., 3.2.2.31.
assembly occupancy (Group A, Division 4),
3.2.2.35.
construction of exposing building faces, 9.10.15.5. definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
dimensions, 3.1.4.7.
exposing building faces, 9.10.14.5.
fire resistance, 9.10.6.2.
fire safety requirements, 3.1.4.7.
flame-spread rating, 3.1.13.8.
high-hazard industrial occupancy (Group F, Division 1), 3.2.2.71.
low-hazard industrial occupancy (Group F, Division 3), 3.2.2.87., 3.2.2.88.
roofs, 3.2.2.16.
structural members, 3.2.3.9. walkways, 3.2.3.19.
when permissible, 3.1.4.6., 3.2.2.16.
Height
access to exit, 3.3.1.8., 9.9.3.4.
between landings, 9.8.3.3., 9.8.4.4., 9.8.5.5. ceilings, 9.5.3.
doorways, 9.5.5., 9.9.6.2.
exits, 9.9.3.4., 9.9.6.2.
guards, 9.8.8.3.
handrails, 9.8.7.4.
mezzanines, 9.5.3.2.
over landings, 9.8.6.4.
over ramps, 9.8.5.3.
over stairs, 9.8.2.2.
rooms and spaces, 9.5.3.1.
storage garages, 9.5.3.3., 9.9.3.4.
Helicopter landing areas, 3.2.4.7., 3.2.4.16., 4.1.5.13., 9.23.16.7.
High buildings
additional requirements, 3.2.6.1. anchorage, 9.23.6.1.
central alarm and control facility, 3.2.6.7. interior finishes, 3.1.13.7.
smoke control system testing, 3.2.6.9. smoke movement limits, 3.2.6.2.
vertical transportation in, 3.5.1.1.
voice communication systems, 3.2.6.8. wind loads, 4.1.7.3.
High-hazard industrial occupancy (Group F, Division 1)
building classification, 3.1.2.1. definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
egress doorways, 3.3.1.5.
fire alarm systems, 3.2.4.1., 3.2.4.3. fire protection, 3.2.2.70. - 3.2.2.73. occupant load, 3.1.17.1.
safety within floor areas, 3.3.1.2. Hipped roofs, wind loads, 4.1.7.6. Hold-open devices, 3.1.8.14., 9.10.13.11. Horizontal exits
balconies, 3.4.6.10.
bridges, 3.4.6.10.
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
hose station beside, 3.2.5.11. and other types of exits, 3.4.1.4. restricted use, 3.4.1.6. vestibules, 3.4.6.10.
width, 3.4.6.10. Horizontal service spaces
access, 3.6.4.5.
application of Code, 3.6.1.1., 3.6.4.1. definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
fire blocks in, 3.1.11.5.
above fire separations, 3.1.8.3., 9.10.9.10.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Index
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 fire separations for, 3.6.4.2.
sprinkler systems, 3.2.5.14. Hose connections, 3.2.5.9., 3.2.5.10. Hospitals, 3.1.8.13., 3.3.3.5., 3.4.1.6. Hot water supply, 9.31.4.2. Housing and small buildings
(see also Dwelling units) air leakage, 9.25. cladding, 9.27.
columns, 9.17.
concrete materials, 9.3.1. condensation control, 9.25. crawl spaces, 9.18. dampproofing, 9.13.
design of areas and spaces, 9.5. drainage, 9.14.
electrical facilities, 9.34. excavations, 9.12.
fire protection, 9.10.
fireplaces, 9.22.
flooring, 9.30. floors-on-ground, 9.16. footings and foundations, 9.15. glass, 9.6.
heat transfer, 9.25.
heating and air-conditioning, 9.33.
interior wall and ceiling finishes, 9.29. lumber and wood products for, 9.3.2. masonry and concrete chimneys, 9.21. masonry and insulating concrete walls, 9.20. materials, systems and equipment, 9.3. means of egress, 9.9.
plumbing facilities, 9.31.
roof spaces, 9.19.
roofing, 9.26.
sheet steel stud wall framing, 9.24.
soil gas control, 9.13.
sound control, 9.11.
stairs, ramps, handrails and guards, 9.8. structural requirements, 9.4.
stucco, 9.28.
ventilation, 9.32.
waterproofing, 9.13.
windows, doors and skylights, 9.7. wood-frame construction, 9.23.
Humidification, 6.3.2.16.
HVAC (see Heating, ventilating and air-conditioning
(HVAC) systems and equipment) Hydrants, 3.2.5.5., 3.2.5.15.
Hydronic heating
design, 9.33.4.1. installation, 9.33.4.2. secondary suites, 9.33.1.1.
Hydrostatic pressure, 4.2.4.8., 5.7.2., 9.13.3.1., 9.16.3.2.
I
Ice, accumulation, 4.1.6.2., 4.1.6.15., 4.1.7.11., 5.3.1.2., 5.6.2.2.
Impeded egress zones
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
door release hardware, 3.4.6.16.
doors and door hardware, 3.3.1.13.
fire alarm systems, 3.2.4.1.
fire annunciators, 3.2.4.8.
sliding doors, 3.4.6.14.
sprinkler system requirements, 3.2.2.19.
Importance categories for buildings, 4.1.2.1. Importance factors
earthquake loads, 4.1.8.5. snow loads, 4.1.6.2. wind loads, 4.1.7.3.
Incinerator rooms, 3.6.2.4., 9.10.10.5.
Indirect service water heaters (see Service water
heaters)
Indoor design temperature, 5.2.1.2., 5.3.1.2., 5.5.1.2.,
9.33.3.1.
Industrial occupancy (Group F)
(see also High-hazard industrial occupancy; Low-hazard industrial occupancy; Medium-hazard industrial occupancy)
classification, 9.10.2.
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
door thresholds, rooms with flammable liquids,
3.3.1.13., 3.4.6.1.
exposing building face, 9.10.14.5.
fire alarm systems, 9.10.18.
fire-resistance rating, 9.10.8.
fire separations, 9.10.9.11., 9.10.9.12. flame-spread rating, 9.10.17.
guards, 3.3.5.10., 9.8.8.5.
ramps and stairways, 3.3.1.14., 3.4.6.7., 3.4.6.8. self-service storage buildings, 3.9.1.3. washrooms, 3.7.2.
Information required for proposed work, 2.2.2.1.[C] Institutional occupancy (see Care, treatment or
detention occupancy) Insulation
attic or roof spaces, 9.25.2.4.
basements, 9.25.2.2.
combustible, in noncombustible construction,
3.1.5.14., 3.1.5.15.
concealed spaces, 3.1.11.2.
crawl spaces, 9.25.2.2., 9.25.2.3.
ducts, 3.1.5.18., 6.3.2.5., 9.32.3.11., 9.33.6.4. environmental separation, 5.1.1.1.
exposure to exterior space on ground, 5.1.2.1. foamed plastic, 3.1.5.14., 3.1.5.15., 5.3.1.3.,
9.10.17.10., 9.25.2.2., 9.33.6.4. foundations, 9.12.2.2., 9.25.2.2., 9.25.2.3. installation, 5.3.1.3., 9.25.2.3., 9.27.3.4. loose-fill, 9.25.2.4.
materials, 9.25.2.2.
material standards, 5.9.1.1., 9.25.2.2. pipes, 3.1.5.18., 6.5.1.1., 9.33.8.2., 9.33.8.4. plenums, 9.33.6.4.
properties, 9.25.5.1.
protection of, 9.10.17.10., 9.25.2.3. requirement for, 5.3.1.1., 9.25.2.1.
roofs, 9.25.2.2.
Index
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 slabs-on-ground, 9.25.2.3.
spray-applied, 5.3.1.3., 9.25.2.5.
supported by gypsum board, 9.29.5.4. thermal, 9.25.2.
thermal resistance, 5.3.1.
walls, 9.25.2.4.
wall sheathing, 9.23.17.2., 9.23.17.3., 9.27.3.4. wires and cables, 3.1.5.21.
Interconnected floor spaces, 1.4.1.2.[A], 3.2.3.2., 3.2.8.2., 3.2.8.8., 9.10.9.5.
Interconnection of duct systems, 6.3.2.7., 6.3.2.10., 9.33.6.7.
Interior finishes
for braced wall panels, 9.23.13.6. ceilings, 9.23.9.4., 9.29.
dampproofing, 9.13.2.5.
fastening to steel studs, 9.24.1.4. flame-spread limits, 9.10.17. flame-spread rating, 3.1.13.2.
floors, 9.30.
gypsum board, 9.29.5.
hardboard, 9.29.7.
in noncombustible construction, 3.1.5.12. insulating fibreboard, 9.29.8.
masonry walls, 9.20.13.9.
materials, 3.1.13.1.
OSB, 9.29.9.
particle board, 9.29.9.
plastering, 9.29.4.
plywood, 9.29.6.
public corridor ceilings, 3.1.13.6.
on steel studs, 9.24.1.5.
support, 9.23.10.5., 9.24.3.4.
tiles, 9.29.10.
underground walkways, 3.1.13.9. waferboard, 9.29.9.
walls, 9.29.
waterproof, 9.29.2.
J
Janitors’ rooms, 3.2.4.10., 3.3.1.21., 9.10.18.4.
Joints and connections for ducts, 9.33.6.2., 9.33.6.3.,
9.33.6.6., 9.33.6.7. Joists
bearing, 9.23.9.1.
cantilevered, 9.23.9.9.
ceilings, 9.23.14.1., 9.23.14.7.
continuity, 9.23.14.1.
dimensions, 9.23.4.1., 9.23.14.7., 9.23.14.10. end bearing length, 9.23.14.3.
floors, 9.23.4.1., 9.23.4.2., 9.23.4.4., 9.23.9. framing around openings, 9.23.14.2.
header, 9.23.9.5., 9.23.9.7.
lumber grade, 9.3.2.1.
nailing, 9.23.3.4., 9.23.9.3., 9.23.14.9. preservative treatment, 9.23.2.2., 9.23.2.3. roofs, 9.23.4.2., 9.23.4.5., 9.23.14.1., 9.23.14.7.,
9.23.14.9.
spans, 9.23.4.1., 9.23.4.2., 9.23.4.4., 9.23.4.5., 9.23.14.7., 9.23.14.10.
strapping, bridging and furring, 9.23.9.4. support, 9.23.14.7.
supported on beams, 9.23.9.2.
supported on masonry or concrete, 9.20.8.2.,
9.20.8.3., 9.21.5.3., 9.23.2.2., 9.23.2.3. supporting walls, 9.23.9.8.
tail, 9.23.9.7.
trimmer, 9.23.9.6.
wood, 9.23.4.1., 9.23.4.2., 9.23.4.4., 9.23.4.5. Junction boxes, electrical, 3.1.5.2., 9.10.9.6.
K
Kitchens
commercial cooking equipment, 3.3.1.2., 6.3.1.7.,
9.10.1.4., 9.10.13.13.
emergency lighting, 3.2.7.3.
exhaust ducts, 3.1.8.8., 3.1.8.9., 6.3.2.10., 9.32.3.11. exhaust fans, 9.32.3.3., 9.32.3.7.
exhaust outlets, 6.3.2.10.
loads on floor or roof, 4.1.5.3.
L
Laboratories
enclosure exhaust ventilation, 3.3.1.20., 6.3.4.3. live loads on floor or roof, 4.1.5.3.
ventilated enclosure construction, 6.3.4.4.
Landings
barrier-free, 3.8.3.5.
configurations, 9.8.6.3.
dimensions, 3.4.3.4., 3.4.6.4., 9.8.6.3.
at doorways, 3.4.3.3., 3.4.6.3., 9.8.6.2., 9.8.6.3.,
9.9.6.1.
fire escapes, 3.4.7.7.
guards, 3.4.6.6., 9.8.8.
height between, 3.4.6.3., 9.8.3.3., 9.8.4.4., 9.8.5.5. height over, 9.8.6.4.
in housing and small buildings, 9.8.6.
omitted, 3.4.6.3.
openings in, 3.4.6.4.
as part of exit, 9.8.1.3.
on ramps, 9.8.6.
slip-resistance, 3.4.6.1., 9.8.9.6.
on stairs, 9.8.6.
Lateral loads
anchorage, 9.23.6.1.
braced wall bands, 9.23.13.4., 9.23.13.5.
braced wall panels, 9.23.13.5., 9.23.13.6.
bracing considerations, 9.23.13.7.
bracing requirements, 9.23.13., 9.23.13.1.
fasteners for framing, 9.23.3.4.
fasteners for sheathing and subfloors, 9.23.3.5. floor joists supporting walls, 9.23.9.8.
lumber roof sheathing, 9.23.16.5.
materials, 9.23.13.6.
particleboard, OSB or waferboard finishes, 9.29.9.3.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Index
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 plywood finish, 9.29.6.3.
roof sheathing, required, 9.23.16.1.
spacing of nails in gypsum board, 9.29.5.8. spacing of screws in gypsum board, 9.29.5.9.
Lath, plaster gypsum, 9.29.4.1. metal, 9.29.4.1.
Lath, stucco
attachment to sheathing, 9.27.5.1. dimensions, 9.28.4.3.
fastening, 9.27.5.7., 9.27.7.5., 9.28.4.6. installation, 9.28.4.2., 9.28.4.5., 9.28.4.6. materials, 9.28.4.1., 9.28.4.3.
nailing, 9.27.5., 9.28.4.6.
self-furring, 9.28.4.4.
standard for, 9.28.4.
stapling, 9.27.5., 9.28.4.6.
uses, 9.28.1.2.
Lattice structures, ice loading, 4.1.6.15. Laundry-drying equipment, 9.32.1.3. Laundry rooms, 3.2.4.10., 3.3.1.22., 9.10.18.4. Lavatories, 3.7.2.3., 3.8.2.8., 3.8.3.15. Libraries, 3.3.2.13., 4.1.5.3.
Licensed beverage establishments access to exit, 3.3.1.17. principal entrances, 3.4.2.6.
Life safety systems, 3.2.9.1., 9.10.1.2.
Light diffusers and lenses, 3.1.13.4., 9.10.17.6.,
9.10.17.8. Lighting
basements, 9.34.2.3., 9.34.2.4.
elements, 3.1.13.1., 9.10.17.6., 9.10.17.8. emergency, 3.2.7.3., 3.2.7.4., 9.9.12.3., 9.34.2.7.,
9.34.3.
entrances, 9.34.2.1.
exits, 3.2.7.1.
fixtures, recessed, 3.2.7.2., 9.34.1.4. garages and carports, 9.34.2.6.
levels, 9.9.12.2., 9.9.12.3.
levels, minimum, 3.2.7.1.
means of egress, 9.9.12.
outlets for, 3.2.7.1., 9.34.2.
public corridors, 3.2.7.1., 9.9.12.2., 9.9.12.3. public and service areas, 9.34.2.7. stairways, 9.34.2.3.
Lightning protection systems, 3.6.1.3. Limiting distance
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
exposing building face, 3.2.3.5., 3.2.3.6., 3.2.3.7.,
9.10.14.5., 9.10.15.5.
exterior walls, 9.10.3.3.
fire department response time, 3.2.3.1.
and firefighting services, 9.10.15.3. fire-resistance rating exception, 3.1.7.2.
less than 1.2 m, 3.2.3.5.
low-hazard industrial occupancy (Group F,
Division 3), 3.2.3.11.
maximum concentrated area, 3.2.3.1.
spatial separation between buildings, 3.2.3.1.,
9.10.14.3., 9.10.15.
unprotected openings, 3.2.3.1., 3.2.3.10.
wall exposed to another wall, 3.2.3.14. Limit states design
application, 4.1.3.
dead load, 4.1.3.2.
definition of terms, 4.1.3.1.
effect of factored loads, 4.1.3.2. fatigue check, 4.1.3.3.
importance factors, 4.1.6.2., 4.1.8.5. load factors, 4.1.3.2.
resistance, 4.1.3.2.
serviceability check, 4.1.3.4. strength and stability check, 4.1.3.2.
Linen chutes, 3.6.3.3., 9.10.1.3. Liners, chimney
clay, 9.21.3.3. clearances, 9.21.3.8. concrete, 9.21.3.5. definition, 1.4.1.2.[A] extensions, 9.21.3.10. firebrick, 9.21.3.4. installation, 9.21.3.7. joints, 9.21.3.2. materials, 9.21.3.1. metal, 9.21.3.6. mortar, 9.21.3.9. separation, 9.21.4.9. standard for, 9.21.3.
Liners, fireplace firebrick, 9.22.2.2. standard for, 9.22.2. steel, 9.22.2.3.
wall thickness, 9.22.3. Linings
for ducts and plenums, 3.1.5.18., 6.3.2.5., 9.33.6.4.
for radiators and convectors, 6.4.3.1., 9.33.7.1. Lintels
dimensions, 9.23.12.3. fireplaces, 9.22.1.2. nailing, 9.23.12.3. spans, 9.23.12.3.
steel, 3.2.2.3., 9.10.7.1., 9.20.5.2., 9.22.1.2. supporting masonry over openings, 9.20.5.2. wood, 9.23.12.
Liquids, combustible (see Combustible liquids) Liquids, flammable (see Flammable liquids) Liquids, hazardous, 6.9.1.2.
Live loads (see Loads)
Loadbearing, definition, 1.4.1.2.[A] Loads
in attics, 9.4.2.4.
bearing pressure for soil or rock, 9.4.4.1. climatic, 1.1.3., 5.2.1.1.
combinations, 4.1.3.2.
concentrated, 4.1.5.9.
dead, 1.4.1.2.[A], 4.1.3.2., 4.1.4., 9.4.3.1. deflections under, 4.1.3.5., 9.4.3.
design requirement, 4.1.1.3.
in dining areas, 4.1.5.3., 4.1.5.6.
due to crane, 4.1.3.2., 4.1.5.11.
due to earthquakes, 4.1.3.2., 4.1.8.
Index
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 due to ice, 4.1.6.15.
due to partitions, 4.1.4.1.
due to resonance, 4.1.3.6.
due to snow and rain, 4.1.6., 4.1.6.4., 9.4.2.2., 9.4.2.3. due to sway forces, 4.1.5.10.
due to use and occupancy, 4.1.5.
during construction, 4.1.1.3.
eccentric, on foundations, 4.2.4.6.
environmental, 5.1.4.1., 5.2.1., 5.2.1.3.
on exterior areas, 4.1.5.5.
on firewalls, 4.1.5.17.
on floors, 4.1.5.3., 9.23.1.1., 9.23.4.1., 9.23.4.2.,
9.23.4.4.
on foundations, 4.2.4.1., 9.4.4.6.
full and partial, 4.1.5.3.
on grab bars, 3.7.2.8., 9.31.2.3.
on guards, 3.3.5.4., 4.1.5.14., 9.8.8.2., 9.8.8.4.
on handrails, 3.4.6.5., 4.1.5.14., 9.8.7.7.
and helipads, 4.1.5.13.
hydrostatic, 4.2.4.8., 9.13.3.1., 9.16.3.2.
impact of machinery and equipment, 4.1.5.11. lateral (see Lateral loads)
limit states, 4.1.3.
live, 1.4.1.2.[A], 4.1.5.
with more than one occupancy, 4.1.5.7.
not specified, 4.1.2.2.
permanent, 4.1.3.2.
on ramps, 9.8.9.1.
on residential balconies, 4.1.5.3., 9.4.2.3.
on retaining walls, 9.4.4.5., 9.4.4.6.
specified, 4.1.2., 9.4.2.
on stairs, 9.8.9.1.
structural, 4.1., 9.4.
structural, on environmental separators, 5.1.4.1.,
5.2.2.
and structural strength, 5.2.2. variation with tributary area, 4.1.5.8. on vehicle guardrails, 4.1.5.15. vibration, 4.1.3.6.
on walls acting as guards, 4.1.5.16. wind (see Wind load)
Lobbies, 3.4.4.2., 9.9.8.5., 9.10.17.3. (see also Vestibules)
Locking devices
automatic, 3.3.4.5.
contained use area, 3.3.1.13.
electromagnetic, 3.3.1.13., 3.4.6.16., 3.4.6.18., 9.9.6.7. impeded egress zone, 3.3.1.13.
principal entrances, 9.9.6.7.
Locks, deadbolt, 9.7.5.2.
Low buildings, wind loads, 4.1.7.5., 4.1.7.6.
Lowest exit level, 3.2.6.2., 3.4.3.2., 3.4.5.2., 9.9.11.4. Low fire load, 3.2.2.89., 3.2.3.11.
Low-hazard industrial occupancy (Group F, Division
3)
building classification, 3.1.2.1.
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
fire alarm systems, 3.2.4.1., 9.10.18.
fire protection, 3.2.2.80. - 3.2.2.90., 3.2.3.11. fire safety within floor areas, 3.3.1., 3.3.5. occupant load, 3.1.17.1.
Lumber
dimensions, 9.3.2.6.
fire stops, 3.1.11.7.
grades, 9.3.2.1., 9.3.2.2., 9.3.2.3.
for housing and small buildings, 9.3.2. moisture content, 9.3.2.5.
protection from termites and decay, 9.3.2.9. sheathing, 9.23.16.5.
structural uses, 9.3.2.9.
undersized, 9.3.2.8.
M
Main entrances (see Principal entrances) Major occupancy
and building classification, 3.1.2.1., 9.10.2. definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
occupancy combination prohibitions, 3.1.3.2.
Major occupancy and fire safety requirements building area determination, 3.2.2.5. exceptions, 3.2.2.8.
fire separations, 3.1.3.1.
multiple occupancies, 3.1.3., 3.2.2.4., 3.2.2.6., 9.10.2., 9.10.9.11., 9.10.9.16., 9.10.9.17.
superimposed occupancies, 3.2.2.7. Makeup air
and depressurization protection, 9.32.3.8. fans, 9.32.3.10.
requirements, 6.3.2.8.
for subfloor depressurization, 9.13.4.3.
Mansard roofs
fire stopping, 3.1.11.5. sheathing, 9.23.17.6. venting, 9.19.1.4.
Manual stations, fire alarm systems, 3.2.4.4., 3.2.4.16. Manufactured buildings, foundations, 9.12.2.2.,
9.15.1.3.
Marquees, 3.1.5.24., 3.1.16.1., 3.2.2.3. Masonry
bonding, 9.20.9., 9.20.11.2.
chases and recesses, 9.20.7.
chimneys, 1.4.1.2.[A], 6.3.3.2., 9.21., 9.33.10.3. cold weather requirements, 9.20.14.
columns, 9.17.5.
corbelling, 9.20.12.
dampproofing, 9.13.2.3.
earthquake reinforcement, 9.20.1.2., 9.20.15. exposure to weather, 9.20.2.6.
flashing, 9.20.13., 9.26.4.4., 9.26.4.6.
flues, 9.21.
foundations, 4.2.3.3., 4.2.3.4., 9.15.1.1., 9.15.2.,
9.15.4., 9.15.4.10.
grout, 9.20.3.2.
installation, 5.6.1.2., 9.15.2.2., 9.15.2.3., 9.20. joints, 9.20.4., 9.20.9.1.
lateral support, 9.20.10.
material standards, 5.6.1.2., 5.9.1.1., 9.15.2.2.,
9.17.5.1.
mortar, 9.20.3.1., 9.20.3.2. parapet walls, 9.20.6.5.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Index
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 for pilasters, 9.15.5.3.
solid, 1.4.1.2.[A]
structural design basis, 4.3.2.1. stucco on, 9.28.1.3.
supporting beams, 9.15.5.2. supporting floor joists, 9.15.5.1. support of loads, 9.20.5., 9.20.8.
as thermal barrier, 3.1.5.14., 3.1.5.15. ties, 9.20.9.5.
tying, 9.20.9., 9.20.11.2.
units, 1.4.1.2.[A], 9.20.2., 9.20.2.1.
used brick, 9.20.2.2.
veneer, 9.20.6.4., 9.20.8.5., 9.20.9.5., 9.20.12.3. walls, 9.20.
weep holes, 5.6.2.1., 9.20.13.5., 9.20.13.6., 9.20.13.8.
Mastics, 3.1.5.2. Materials
braced wall panels, 9.23.13.6.
characteristics, 1.2.2.1.[A]
cladding, hardboard, factory-finished, 9.27.9.1. cladding, lumber, 9.27.6.1.
cladding, OSB and waferboard, 9.27.10.1. cladding, plywood, 9.27.8.1.
cladding, strip steel, 9.27.11.1.
cladding, vinyl, 9.27.12.1.
columns, unit masonry, 9.17.5.1.
columns, wood, 9.17.4.2.
combustible, in noncombustible construction,
9.10.6.
concrete, 9.3.1.
dampproofing, 9.13.2.2.
design requirements, 4.3.
drainage tile and pipe, 9.14.3.1.
ducts, 6.3.2.3., 9.32.3.11., 9.33.6.2.
eave protection, 9.26.5.2.
exterior insulation finish systems, 9.27.13. fibreboard, insulating, 9.29.8.1.
fire blocks, 9.10.16.3.
fire stops, 3.1.9.1., 3.1.11.7.
flashing, 9.20.13.1., 9.26.4.2., 9.27.3.7. foundations, 4.2.3.
glass, 9.6.1.2.
granular, beneath floors, 9.16.2.
gypsum products, 9.29.5.2.
hardboard, 9.29.7.1.
for housing and small buildings, 9.30.
lumber and wood products, 9.3.2.
metal, 9.3.3.
particleboard finish, 9.29.9.1.
pipes for heating and cooling systems, 6.7.1.1.,
9.33.8.1.
roofing, 9.26.2.1.
roof sheathing, 9.23.16.2. sealants, 9.27.4.2.
shingles and shakes, 9.27.7.1. standards, 1.5.[A], 5.9.1.1.
steel studs and runners, 9.24.1.2. storage, 1.2.2.2.[A], 9.10.1.3. subflooring, 9.23.15.2.
testing, 4.1.1.5.
underlay, panel-type, 9.30.2.2.
used, 1.2.2.3.[A]
waterproofing, 9.13.3.2., 9.29.2.2.
Materials, appliances, systems and equipment
characteristics, 1.2.2.1.[A] storage, 1.2.2.2.[A]
used, 1.2.2.3.[A]
Means of egress
(see also Exits)
from air-supported structures, 3.1.6.1.
from care, treatment or detention occupancy,
3.3.3.3.
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
dimensions, 9.9.3.
through doors and windows in dwelling units,
9.7.2.2.
from dwelling units, 3.3.4.4., 9.9.9.
exterior passageways as, 3.2.2.12.
and fire hose cabinets, 3.2.5.11.
within floor areas, 3.3.1.3.
from housing and small buildings, 9.9. lighting of, 9.9.12.2.
obstructions in, 3.3.1.23., 3.4.3.3., 9.9.5., 9.9.5.5.,
9.9.11.2.
from outdoor places of assembly, 3.3.2.11. from secondary suites, 9.9.9.
sliding doors in, 3.3.1.12.
from tents, 3.1.6.1.
transparent panels or doors in, 3.3.1.19., 9.6.1.4. with two separate exits, 9.9.9.2.
Measurement, rooms and spaces, 9.5.1.1. Mechanical systems and equipment (see
Heatingventilating and air-conditioning
(HVAC) systems and equipment) Mechanical ventilation (see Ventilation)
Medical gas piping, 3.7.3.1., 9.31.1.1. Medium-hazard industrial occupancy (Group F,
Division 2)
ammonium nitrate storage, 3.3.6.6. building classification, 3.1.2.1. definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
fire alarm systems, 3.2.4.1., 9.10.18.
fire protection, 3.2.2.74. - 3.2.2.79.
fire safety within floor areas, 3.3.1., 3.3.5. occupant load, 3.1.17.1.
Mercantile occupancy (Group E) classification, 3.1.2.1., 9.10.2. definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
exit stairs, 9.9.4.7.
exposing building face, 9.10.14.5. fire alarm systems, 3.2.4.1., 9.10.18. fire protection, 3.2.2.64. - 3.2.2.69. fire-resistance rating, 9.10.8.
fire safety within floor areas, 3.3.1. flame-spread rating, 9.10.17. occupant load, 3.1.17.1.
security, 3.4.6.17.
Metal
cladding, 5.6.1., 5.9.1.1., 9.27.3.6., 9.27.5.6., 9.27.11. for housing and small buildings, 9.3.3. galvanized sheet, 9.3.3.2.
roof deck assembly, 3.1.14.2.
Index
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 sheet thickness, 9.3.3.1.
siding, 5.6.1., 5.9.1.1., 9.27.3.6., 9.27.5.6., 9.27.11. Mezzanines
application of requirements to exterior passageways, 3.2.2.12.
assembly occupancy (Group A, Division 1), 3.2.2.20.
assembly occupancy (Group A, Division 2), 3.2.2.23.
assembly occupancy (Group A, Division 3), 3.2.2.29.
and building height, 3.2.1.1., 9.10.4.1., 9.10.4.2. business and personal services occupancy (Group
D), 3.2.2.55.
care, treatment or detention occupancy (Group B,
Division 1), 3.2.2.36., 3.2.2.37.
care, treatment or detention occupancy (Group B,
Division 2), 3.2.2.38. - 3.2.2.41.
care, treatment or detention occupancy (Group B,
Division 3), 3.2.2.42. - 3.2.2.46.
ceiling height, 9.5.3.2.
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
fire-resistance rating, 9.10.8.6., 9.10.9.4. fire separations, 3.2.1.6., 3.2.8.1., 9.10.12.1. guards, 3.3.1.18., 9.8.8.1.
high-hazard industrial occupancy (Group F, Division 1), 3.2.2.70.
loads on floor or roof, 4.1.5.3., 4.1.5.4. low-hazard industrial occupancy (Group F,
Division 3), 3.2.2.80.
means of egress, 3.4.2.2., 9.9.8.6. medium-hazard industrial occupancy (Group F,
Division 2), 3.2.2.74.
mercantile occupancy (Group E), 3.2.2.64. occupant load, 3.1.17.1.
openings in floor assemblies, 3.2.8.2. residential occupancy (Group C), 3.2.2.47. termination, 9.10.12.1.
Micro-organisms, minimizing growth of, 6.3.1.6., 6.3.2.15.
Mild climate indicator, 9.25.4.2., 9.25.5.1. Millwork, combustible, 3.1.5.9.
Mirrors
in exits, 9.9.5.6.
in washrooms, 3.8.3.15.
Misters, 6.3.2.16.
Mobile home parks, sanitary facilities, 3.7.2.4. Moisture
diffusion, 5.1.1.1., 5.5.1.2.
flooring resistant to, 9.30.1.2.
protection against, application of Code, 9.13.1.1. resistant backing for wall tile, 9.29.10.4. transfer, 5.1.1.1., 5.2.1.3., 5.5.1.2.
Moisture index, 9.27.2.2. Mortar
aggregate for, 5.9.1.1., 9.20.3.1., 9.20.3.2., 9.29.10.2. as base for ceramic wall tile, 9.29.10.2.
cold weather requirements, 9.20.14.
joints, 9.20.4.
material standards, 9.20.3.1. mixes, 9.20.3.2.
standard for, 9.20.3.
uses, 9.20.3.2. Movement, differential
columns, 9.17.2.2.
decks and other accessible platforms, 9.12.2.2.,
9.23.6.2.
elements in environmental separation, 5.1.4.1.,
5.2.2.1.
metal and vinyl cladding, 9.27.5.6.
Moving walks, 3.2.8.2., 3.8.2.3., 3.8.2.4., 9.8.1.4. Multiple occupancies
and building classification, 9.10.2.
building size and construction requirements,
3.2.2.4.
fire separations, 3.1.3.
requirements decided by most restricted
occupancy, 3.2.2.6.
separation of repair garages, 9.10.9.17. separation of residential occupancies, 9.10.9.11. separation of storage garages, 9.10.9.16.
N
Nailing
bracing, 9.23.10.2.
built-up beams, 9.23.8.3.
cladding, 9.27.5., 9.27.7.3.
columns, 9.17.4.2.
fibreboard finish, 9.29.8.3.
framing, 9.23.3.4.
furring, 9.29.3.2.
gypsum board, 9.29.5.5., 9.29.5.8.
hardboard finish, 9.29.7.3.
joists, 9.23.9.2., 9.23.9.3., 9.23.14.9.
lintels, 9.23.12., 9.23.12.3.
OSB finish, 9.29.9.3.
particleboard finish, 9.29.9.3.
plywood finish, 9.29.6.3.
prevention of splitting, 9.23.3.3.
rafters, 9.23.14.4.
roofing, 9.26.2.3.
runners, 9.24.3.1.
shakes, 9.27.7.3.
sheathing, 9.23.3.5.
shingles, 9.26.7.4., 9.26.7.6., 9.26.8.5., 9.27.7.3. siding, 9.27.5., 9.27.7.3.
stucco, 9.28.3.2.
subflooring, 9.23.3.5., 9.23.15.6.
underlay, 9.30.2.3.
waferboard finish, 9.29.9.3.
wall plates, 9.23.11.3.
wood-frame construction, 9.23.3.
wood shingles and shakes, 9.26.9.5., 9.26.10.4. wood strip flooring, 9.30.3.3.
Nailing and supporting elements
fire blocks required, 3.1.11.3.
in noncombustible construction, 3.1.5.8.
Nails
for cladding, 9.27.5., 9.27.5.4., 9.27.7.3.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Index
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 diameters, 9.23.3.1.
dimensions, 9.23.3.5., 9.26.2.3., 9.27.5.4. for fibreboard finish, 9.29.8.3.
for gypsum board, 9.29.5.6.
length, 9.23.3.2.
for OSB finish, 9.29.9.3.
for particleboard finish, 9.29.9.3.
for roofing, 9.23.3.5., 9.26.2.3.
for shingles, 9.26.7.4.
standard for, 9.23.3.1., 9.26.2.3., 9.29.5.6. for underlay, 9.30.2.3.
for waferboard finish, 9.29.9.3.
National Building Code
acceptable solutions, 1.2.1.1.[A] administration, 2.2.[C]
alternative solutions, 1.2.1.1.[A]
application, 1.1.1.[A], 1.1.1.[C], 1.3.[A], 2.1.1.[A],
3.1.[A]
compliance, 2.2.[A]
conflicting requirements, 1.5.1.2.[A] objectives, 2.2.1.1.[A]
referenced documents, 1.3.1., 1.5.1.[A] scope, 1.1.1.[C], 1.3.1.[B]
Noise, protection from, 5.8., 9.32.3.10. Noncombustible cladding, 3.2.3.7., 3.2.3.9. Noncombustible construction
assembly occupancy (Group A, Division 1), 3.2.2.20., 3.2.2.21.
assembly occupancy (Group A, Division 2), 3.2.2.23., 3.2.2.24.
assembly occupancy (Group A, Division 3), 3.2.2.29.
assembly occupancy (Group A, Division 4), 3.2.2.35.
business and personal services occupancy (Group D), 3.2.2.55.
care, treatment or detention occupancy (Group B, Division 1), 3.2.2.36., 3.2.2.37.
care, treatment or detention occupancy (Group B, Division 2), 3.2.2.38. - 3.2.2.41.
care, treatment or detention occupancy (Group B, Division 3), 3.2.2.42. - 3.2.2.46.
combustible elements, 3.1.5.6., 9.10.6.1. combustible finishes in, 3.1.5.12. combustible flooring in, 3.1.5.10. combustible insulation in, 3.1.5.14. combustible stairs in, 3.1.5.11. decorative wood cladding, 3.1.5.24. definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
ducts (combustible) in, 3.1.5.18. exposing building face, 3.2.3.7. exterior walls, 3.1.5.5., 3.1.5.6. factory-assembled panels, 3.1.5.7. fire stops, 3.1.11.3.
firewalls, 3.1.10.1., 3.1.10.2.
flame-spread rating, 3.1.13.8.
glazing and skylights, 3.1.5.4.
high-hazard industrial occupancy (Group F,
Division 1), 3.2.2.70., 3.2.2.71. low-hazard industrial occupancy (Group F,
materials permitted in, 3.1.5.1.
medium-hazard industrial occupancy (Group F,
Division 2), 3.2.2.74., 3.2.2.75. mercantile occupancy (Group E), 3.2.2.64. metal roof decks, 3.1.14.2.
minor combustible components, 3.1.5.2. nailing elements, 3.1.5.8.
non-metallic raceways in, 3.1.5.23. partitions in, 3.1.5.16.
plumbing fixtures, 3.1.5.20.
residential occupancy (Group C), 3.2.2.47. roofing materials, 3.1.5.3.
support of, 9.10.8.4.
vehicular passageways, 3.2.3.18. walkways, 3.2.3.19., 3.2.3.20.
wires and cables, 3.1.5.21., 3.1.5.22.
Noncombustible materials
permitted in noncombustible construction, 3.1.5.1. return air ducts, 3.6.5.8.
Notching of framing members, 9.23.5.2. Nursing homes, 3.1.8.13., 3.3.3.5., 3.4.1.6.
O
Objectives of the Code application, 2.1.1.2.[A], 3.2.[A] definition, 2.2.1.1.[A]
Obstructions
in corridors, 3.3.1.9., 9.9.5.2., 9.9.5.3., 9.9.6.1. in doorways, 9.9.6.1., 9.9.6.3.
in exits, 3.4.3.3., 9.9.5., 9.9.5.5., 9.9.6.1., 9.9.6.2. in means of egress, 3.3.1.23., 9.9.5., 9.9.5.5.
Occupancy
and building classification, 3.1.2.1., 9.10.2. and building size determination, 1.3.3.4.[A] combination prohibitions, 3.1.3.2., 9.10.9.12. definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
and live loads, 4.1.5.3.
multiple (see Multiple occupancies)
Occupant load
and access to exits, 9.9.7.1. definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
and exit stairway, 3.4.3.1.
and fire alarm systems, 3.2.4.1. fire alarm systems, 3.2.4.22.
fire safety requirements, 3.1.17.1. and means of egress, 9.9.1.3.
and seating, 3.3.2.2.
Odour removal equipment, 6.8.1.3., 9.33.6.14. Office areas, 4.1.5.3.
Oil-burning equipment, 6.2.1.5., 9.33.5.2. Open-air storage garages, 9.10.18.8.
Open-air storey
access route, 3.2.5.4.
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
exposing building face, 9.10.14.4.
fire containment exception, 3.2.1.5., 3.2.2.80. low-hazard industrial occupancy (Group F,
Division 3), 3.2.2.90.
Index
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Division 3), 3.2.2.80., 3.2.2.87.
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 storage garages, 6.3.1.4.
unprotected openings, 3.2.3.10. Openings
(see also Unprotected openings)
in barrier-free path of travel, 3.8.3.2.
care, treatment or detention occupancy, 3.3.3.2.
for ducts, 6.3.2.9., 9.10.5.1., 9.33.6.10.
for escalators, 3.2.8.2.
in exposing building face, 9.10.14., 9.10.15.
in exterior walls, 3.2.3.13., 3.2.3.17., 9.10.12.3.
for fire dampers, 9.24.3.7.
fire protection, 9.10.1.3.
in fire separations, 3.1.8.1., 3.1.8.6., 3.2.3.13., 3.3.3.2.,
3.4.4.4., 9.10.5., 9.10.9.3., 9.10.13., 9.10.13.8. through floor assemblies, interconnected floor
spaces, 3.2.8.
in garage floors, 3.3.5.4.
in guards, 9.8.8.5.
guards for, 3.3.1.18., 3.4.6.6.
in membrane ceilings, 3.1.9.6., 9.10.5.
for moving walks, 3.2.8.2.
for natural ventilation, 9.32.2.2.
near exterior exits, 9.9.4.4. - 9.9.4.6.
onto landings, 3.4.6.4.
in repair garages, 3.3.3.2.
for stairways, 3.2.8.2.
support of masonry above, 9.20.5.2.
in walls above adjoining roof, 9.10.12.2.
in walls exposed to adjoining roof, 3.2.3.15.
Operating rooms, 3.3.3.6., 4.1.5.3. Oriented strand board (see OSB) Orphanages, 3.2.4.3.
OSB
as cladding, 5.9.1.1., 9.27.2.4., 9.27.3.6., 9.27.5., 9.27.10.
fire blocks, 9.10.16.3.
fire protection of soffits, 9.10.12.4.
fire stopping, 3.1.11.7.
as interior finish, 9.29.9.
material, 9.3.2.4.
material standard, 5.9.1.1., 9.23.15.2., 9.23.16.2.,
9.23.17.2., 9.27.10.1., 9.29.9.1., 9.30.2.2.
as roof sheathing, 9.3.2.4., 9.23.3.5., 9.23.16.2. as siding, 9.27.2.4., 9.27.3.6., 9.27.5., 9.27.10. as subflooring, 9.3.2.4., 9.23.15.2., 9.23.15.5. thickness, 9.3.2.7.
as underlay, 9.30.2.
as wall sheathing, 9.3.2.4., 9.23.3.5., 9.23.10.2.,
9.23.13., 9.23.17.2., 9.23.17.5. Outdoor places of assembly, 3.3.2.11. Outdoor process equipment, 3.2.3.21. Outdoors
air quality, 6.2.1.2., 6.3.2.14.
air supply rates, 6.3.1.1., 6.3.1.4.
design temperatures, 1.1.3.1., 5.2.1.1., 5.3.1.2.,
5.5.1.2., 6.2.1.2., 9.33.3.2., 9.33.5.1. Outlet boxes, electrical
combustible, in noncombustible construction, 3.1.5.2.
penetrating fire separations, 3.1.9.2., 3.1.9.3., 3.1.9.4., 9.10.5.1., 9.10.9.6.
Ovens, fire protection, 9.10.22.
Overall thermal transmittance (U-value)
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
Owner, definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
Oxidizing gases (see Combustible gases)
P
Paint
in noncombustible construction, 3.1.5.2. on steel columns, 9.17.3.3., 9.23.8.2.
Parapets
design, 4.1.8.18., 5.6.2.2., 9.20.6.5. firewalls as, 3.1.10.4.
in noncombustible construction, 3.1.5.3.
Parging
of above-grade masonry, 9.20.13.9. for dampproofing, 9.13.2.3., 9.13.2.4. of foundation walls, 9.15.6.
for protection of insulation, 9.25.2.3. for waterproofing, 9.13.3.3.
Parking areas
access, 3.8.2.5.
barrier-free path of travel, 3.8.2.5. ventilation, 6.3.1.4.
Parking decks on roofs, 4.1.5.5.
Parking garages (see Storage garages)
Parking structures, structural design basis, 4.4.2.1. Particleboard
as interior finish, 9.29.9.
material standard, 9.23.15.2., 9.29.9.1., 9.30.2.2. subflooring, 9.23.15.2.
thickness, 9.3.2.7.
underlay, 9.30.2.2.
Partitions
dead loads, 4.1.4.1.
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
exceptions for mezzanines, 3.2.8.2.
in lieu of sliding doors, 3.3.1.12.
in noncombustible construction, 3.1.5.16. sliding glass, 3.3.1.19.
Party walls
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
fire separations, 9.10.9.
as firewalls, 3.2.3.4., 9.10.11.1. not as firewalls, 9.10.11.2.
Passageways
as exits, 3.4.1.4.
as means of egress, 9.9.2.1. vehicular, 3.2.3.18.
Passageways, exterior
as access to exit, 9.9.9.3. exemptions, 3.4.4.3.
as exits, 3.3.1.15., 3.4.1.5. fire-resistance rating, 9.10.8.8. fire separations, 9.9.4.2. flame-spread rating, 9.10.17.4. interior finishes, 3.1.13.10.
as means of egress, 3.2.2.12.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Index
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Passenger pickup areas, barrier-free, 3.8.3.1. Path of travel, barrier-free
access to storeys served by escalators and moving walks, 3.8.2.3.
apartment buildings, 9.5.2.3.
application of Code, 3.8.2.1.
doors and doorways, 3.8.3.6.
drinking fountains, 3.8.3.10.
elevators, 3.3.1.7., 3.8.2.3., 3.8.3.2., 3.8.3.7. floor areas, 3.3.1.7., 9.5.2.2.
parking areas, 3.8.2.5.
signs, 3.8.2.4.
universal washrooms, 3.8.3.12. walkways, 3.8.3.3.
wheelchair spaces, 3.8.2.3., 3.8.3.21.
width, 3.8.3.2.
Patients’ bedrooms, 3.3.3.5., 3.4.1.6., 4.1.5.3. Penetrations in fire assemblies, 3.1.9.1. Penthouses, 3.6.1.1., 4.1.8.1.
Perched groundwater, 1.4.1.2.[A], 4.2.5.5. Permafrost, 4.2.4.10., 9.15.1.2.
Piers
anchoring to, 9.20.11.6.
dimensions, 9.35.3.4.
Pier-type foundations, 9.15.2.3.
Pilasters, 9.15.5.3., 9.20.8.4.
Pile foundations, 1.4.1.2.[A], 4.1.8.16., 4.2.3.8. Pipes
clearances, 6.7.1.2., 9.33.8.3.
combustible (see Combustible piping)
corrosion protection, 9.31.2.2.
coverings, 3.6.5.5.
drainage, 9.14.3.
expansion and contraction, 6.7.1.1., 9.33.8.1.
for heating and cooling systems, 9.33.8. insulation, 3.6.5.5., 6.5.1.1., 9.33.8.2., 9.33.8.4. materials, 6.7.1.1., 9.14.3.1.
for medical gas, 3.7.3.1.
metal, 9.14.3., 9.31.2.2.
in noncombustible construction, 3.1.5.18., 3.1.5.19. penetrating fire separations, 3.1.9.2., 3.1.9.5.,
9.10.9.6., 9.10.9.7.
plumbing, 9.31.2.2. polypropylene, 3.1.5.19.
in shafts, 6.7.1.5.
sleeves for, 6.7.1.4., 9.33.8.4. standards for drainage, 9.14.3.1. support, 6.7.1.1., 9.33.8.1.
Plans, specifications and calculations administration, 2.2.[C]
environmental separation, 2.2.5.2.[C]
fire protection components, 2.2.3.[C] foundations, 2.2.4.[C], 2.2.4.6.[C], 2.2.4.7.[C] general information, 2.2.2.1.[C]
HVAC systems, 2.2.6.2.[C], 6.1.3.1. site, 2.2.2.2.[C]
sprinkler systems, 2.2.3.2.[C] structural, 2.2.4.[C], 4.1.1.4.
Plastering, 9.29.4.
Plaster, material standard, 9.29.4.1.
Plates
fastening of, 9.23.3.4. sill, 9.23.7.
wall, 9.23.11.
Platforms, serving as roofs, 9.26.1.1. Plenums
in air duct systems, 3.6.5.1.
ceiling assemblies used as, 3.1.9.7. ceilings used as, 3.6.4.3.
clearances, 3.6.5.6., 6.3.2.6., 9.33.6.8. combustible, 9.33.6.2.
in combustible construction, 3.1.4.3. connectors, 9.33.6.2.
construction, 6.3.2.3., 9.33.6.6.
coverings, 3.6.5.4., 9.33.6.4.
crawl spaces used as, 9.18.7.1. definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
fittings, 6.3.2.3., 9.33.6.2.
furnace, 9.33.6.6., 9.33.6.7., 9.33.6.8. insulation, 9.33.6.4.
linings, 3.6.5.4., 6.3.2.5., 9.33.6.4. materials, 6.3.2.3., 9.33.6.2., 9.33.6.3.
in noncombustible construction, 3.1.5.18. return air, 3.6.4.3., 9.32.3.4.
Plumbing
barrier-free design, 3.8.2.8. combustible piping, 9.10.9.7.
in dwelling units, 3.7.2., 9.31.
facilities required, 3.7.2., 3.8.2.8., 9.31.4. fixtures, 3.1.5.20., 3.7.2., 9.31.4.
Plumbing services, 7 Plumbing systems
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
design and installation, 7.1.2.1. in dwelling units, 7.1.3.2. facilities required, 7.1.3.
Plywood
as cladding, 5.9.1.1., 9.27.2.4., 9.27.3.6., 9.27.5.,
9.27.8.
fastening, 9.29.6.3.
fire blocks, 9.10.16.3.
fire protection of soffits, 9.10.12.4.
fire stops, 3.1.11.7.
grooved, 9.29.6.2.
as interior finish, 9.29.6.
lapped strips, 9.27.8.5.
material, 9.3.2.4.
material standards, 5.9.1.1., 9.23.15.2., 9.23.16.2.,
9.23.17.2., 9.27.8.1., 9.30.2.2.
as roof sheathing, 9.3.2.4., 9.23.3.5., 9.23.16.2.,
9.23.16.6., 9.23.16.7.
as siding, 5.9.1.1., 9.27.8.
as subflooring, 9.23.3.5., 9.23.15.
thickness, 9.3.2.7., 9.29.6.1.
as underlay, 9.30.2.
as wall sheathing, 9.23.3.5., 9.23.10.2., 9.23.13.,
9.23.17.2., 9.23.17.5.
Police stations, 3.1.2.4.
Portable fire extinguishers, 3.2.5.16., 9.10.20.4. Post-disaster buildings
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
Index
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 earthquake load and effects, 4.1.8.1., 4.1.8.5., 4.1.8.10., 4.1.8.13., 4.1.8.14.
loads and effects, 4.1.2.1. snow loads, 4.1.6.2. structural loads, 5.2.2.1. wind loads, 4.1.7.3.
Potable water systems, 9.31.3. Power-operated doors, 3.8.2.7., 3.8.3.6. Precipitation
ingress, 5.6.1.1., 5.6.2.1., 9.27.2.
protection from, 5.6.1.1., 5.6.2.1., 9.20.13., 9.26. Pressure piping, 6.2.1.5., 9.33.5.2.
Pressure vessels, 6.2.1.5., 9.33.5.2.
Principal entrances
access routes, 3.2.5.4., 3.2.5.5.
door requirements, 9.7.2.1.
as exits, 3.3.1.17., 3.4.2.6.
latching, locking and opening mechanisms, 9.9.6.7. manual fire alarm stations, 3.2.4.16.
as means of egress, 9.9.2.4. Private seniors’ residence
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
Private sewage disposal systems (see Sewage disposal
systems, private) Process plants
basements and pits, 3.3.6.9. definition, 1.4.1.2.[A] volatile liquids, 3.3.6.9.
Protected floor space, 1.4.1.2.[A], 3.2.8.5., 3.4.3.2. Protection from freezing
(see also Frost action)
concrete, 9.3.1.9.
concrete stairs, 9.8.10.3.
excavations, 9.12.1.3.
fire protection systems, 3.2.5.17., 9.10.20.5. foundations, 9.12.1.3.
gypsum board, 9.29.5.10.
HVAC systems and equipment, 6.2.1.6., 9.33.4.,
9.33.4.5. masonry, 9.20.14.1. stucco, 9.28.6.1.
Protection from high temperature piping, 6.7.1.4., 9.33.8.4.
Public areas
(see also Corridors)
glass doors in, 3.3.1.19.
glass used in, 3.3.1.14., 9.6.1.4.
transparent panels used in, 3.3.1.19., 9.6.1.4., 9.7.5. windows in, 3.3.1.19., 9.7.5.
Public corridors
(see also Corridors)
access to exit, 9.9.9.1., 9.9.9.3.
containing occupancy, 9.10.17.7.
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
doors and door hardware, 3.3.1.13.
doors opening onto, 9.10.13.12.
emergency lighting, 3.2.7.3., 9.9.12.3.
exit signs, 3.4.5.2.
fire separations, 3.3.1.4.
flame-spread rating, 3.1.13.6., 9.10.17.2., 9.10.17.5. lighting, 3.2.7.1., 9.9.12.2.
serving sprinklered buildings, 3.3.1.1. smoke control measures, 3.2.6.2. travel distance to exit, 3.4.2.5.
width, 3.3.1.9.
Public thoroughfares, 3.2.3.9., 3.2.5.6., 9.10.20.3. Public ways
combustible projections near, 3.2.3.6.
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A] Pyritic soil and rock
drainage, 9.14.2.1., 9.14.4.1. beneath floors-on-ground, 9.16.2.2. and footings, 9.15.3.2.
foundations on, 9.4.4.4.
not in backfill, 9.12.3.3.
R
Raceways
collapse of, in firewalls, 3.1.10.1.
in combustible construction, 3.1.4.4.
in exit areas, 3.4.4.4.
and fire alarm systems, 3.2.4.2.
in noncombustible construction, 3.1.5.21., 3.1.5.23. penetrating fire separations, 3.1.9.2., 9.10.9.6.
in plenums, 3.6.4.3.
Radiation from interior fires, control, 3.2.3.1., 9.10.14., 9.10.15.
Radiators, 6.7.1.3., 9.33.7.1. Radon gas infiltration
(see also Soil gas control)
air barriers, 9.25.3.
depressurization system, 9.32.3.8.
and HVAC design, 6.2.1.1.
required resistance to, 5.4.1.1.
rough-in for subfloor depressurization system,
9.13.4.3. Rafters
anchoring to masonry, 9.20.11.4. continuity, 9.23.14.1.
deflection, 9.4.3.1.
dimensions, 9.23.4.2., 9.23.14.6., 9.23.14.7. fastening, 9.23.3.4., 9.23.14.4.
framing around openings, 9.23.14.2. hip and valley, 9.23.14.6. installation, 9.23.14.4.
lumber grade, 9.3.2.1.
nailing, 9.23.3.4., 9.23.14.4.
ridge support, 9.23.14.8.
shaping, 9.23.14.5.
spans, 9.23.4.2., 9.23.4.5., 9.23.14.7. support, 9.23.14.3., 9.23.14.7.
in wood-frame construction, 9.23.14. Rain loads, 4.1.6.4., 4.1.6.12., 9.4.2.2.
(see also Moisture index)
Rain penetration control, 5.6., 9.20.13., 9.26., 9.27.4. Ramps
barrier-free, 3.8.2.2., 3.8.3.2., 3.8.3.5., 9.8.5.1. barrier-free floor areas, 3.3.1.7.
basement, 3.4.5.2.
at doors, 9.8.6.2., 9.9.4.4.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Index
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 for dwelling units, 9.8.1.
as exits, 3.4.1.4., 9.8.1.3., 9.9.2.1.
exit signs, 9.9.11.4.
finishes, 9.8.9.6.
in garages, 9.8.8.4.
guards, 3.4.6.6., 3.8.3.5., 9.8.8. handrails, 3.4.6.5., 3.8.3.5., 9.8.7., 9.8.7.1. height, 9.8.5.5.
height over, 9.8.5.3.
for housing and small buildings, 9.8.5. landings on, 3.4.6.3., 9.8.6.
loads, 9.8.9.1.
rise, 9.8.5.5.
safety requirements, 3.3.1.14.
for secondary suites, 9.8.1. slip-resistance, 3.4.6.1., 9.8.9.6.
slope, 3.4.6.7., 3.8.3.5., 9.8.5.4.
width, 3.4.3.2., 9.8.5.2.
Ranges (see Stoves)
Receptacles, electrical, 9.34.1.1., 9.34.2.2. Recessed lighting fixtures, 3.2.7.2., 9.34.1.4. Recesses, 9.20.7.
Referenced documents, 1.3.1., 1.5.1.[A] Refrigerating systems and equipment
in housing and small buildings, 9.33.9.
installation, 6.2.1.5., 6.6.1.1., 9.33.5.2., 9.33.9.1. Refuse
bins, 3.6.3.3.
chutes, 3.6.3.3., 5.8.1.1., 9.10.1.3. combustible, 9.10.10.6.
rooms, 3.6.2.5., 3.6.3.3.
Registers and outlets
(see also Air outlets; Diffusers) exhaust, 6.3.2.10., 9.32.3.13. heating, 9.33.6.10., 9.33.6.11. over pipeless furnaces, 9.33.6.8. ventilation, 9.32.3.5.
Reinforced concrete, 4.3.3.1., 9.3.1.1. Reinforcing
concrete block foundations, 9.20.15.2. earthquakes, 9.20.1.2., 9.20.15.
glass block, 9.20.9.6.
insulating concrete form walls, 9.3.1.1., 9.15.4.5.,
9.20.17.
masonry, 9.20.15. stucco, 9.28.1.2., 9.28.4.5.
Repair garages
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
fire separation requirements, 9.10.9.17.
in industrial occupancies, 3.3.5.4.
separation from care, treatment or detention
occupancies, 3.3.3.2.
solid-fuel burning appliances prohibited in, 3.6.2.1.
Residential fire warning systems, 3.2.4.21., 9.10.19.8. Residential occupancy (Group C)
(see also Dwelling units; Secondary suites) below ground level, 3.2.2.15. classification, 3.1.2.1., 9.10.2.
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
door hold-open devices, 3.1.8.14.
emergency power for fire alarm systems, 3.2.7.8.
emergency power for lighting, 3.2.7.4.
fire access route design, 3.2.5.6.
fire alarm systems, 3.2.4.1., 3.2.4.11., 3.2.4.18.,
9.10.18.
fire protection, 3.2.2.47. - 3.2.2.54. fire-resistance rating, 9.10.8.
fire safety within floor areas, 3.3.1., 3.3.4.1. fire separations, 9.10.9.11., 9.10.9.12., 9.10.9.14. firewalls, 9.10.11.2.
flame-spread rating, 3.1.13.3., 9.10.17.
lighting requirements, 3.2.7.1.
location of smoke/fire dampers, 3.1.8.7. occupant load, 3.1.17.1.
ramp slope maximum, 3.4.6.7.
smoke alarms, 3.2.4.20., 9.10.19.
smoke control measures, 3.2.6.2.
sprinkler piping, 3.2.5.13.
sprinkler systems, 3.2.5.12.
storage lockers, 3.1.5.17.
Resilient flooring, 9.30.2.1., 9.30.5. Resistance to deterioration, 5.1.4.2., 9.20.16.1. (see also Corrosion protection; Corrosion
resistance; Decay, protection against) Resistance to forced entry
doors, 9.7.5.2.
windows, 9.7.5.3.
Resistant design, earthquake load, 4.1.3.2. Restaurants, 3.2.4.1., 6.3.1.7.
Return air inlets, 9.33.6.12.
Return air systems, 3.6.5.8., 6.3.2.11., 9.33.6.13.
(see also Air intakes; Ducts)
Return ducts, 1.4.1.2.[A], 6.3.2.11., 9.33.6.13. Review of work, 2.2.7.[C]
Revolving doors, 3.4.6.15., 9.9.6.4.
Rim joists
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
and exterior wall framing, 9.23.3.4. Risers
aisle steps, 3.3.2.5.
bleacher steps, 3.3.2.12.
curved flights, 3.3.1.16.
dimensions, 3.4.6.8., 9.8.4.1.
minimum number, 3.4.6.2., 9.8.3.2. uniformity and tolerances, 3.4.6.8., 9.8.4.4.
Rock
bearing pressure, 9.4.4.1., 9.4.4.2. definition, 1.4.1.2.[A] foundations on, 9.12.2.2.
Rock, pyritic
drainage, 9.14.2.1., 9.14.4.1. beneath floors-on-ground, 9.16.2.2. and footings, 9.15.3.2.
foundations on, 9.4.4.4.
not in backfill, 9.12.3.3.
Roof aggregate, 9.26.11.1., 9.26.11.4.
Roof arches (see Roof and ceiling framing) Roof assemblies
fire-resistance rating, 3.1.7.5., 3.2.2.17., 3.2.2.25., 3.2.2.35., 3.2.2.49., 3.2.2.52., 3.2.2.56., 3.2.2.60., 3.2.2.66., 3.2.2.76., 3.2.2.81., 3.2.2.83.
non-contiguous, 3.1.15.2., 3.2.2.50., 3.2.2.58.
Index National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Roof and ceiling framing
bearing on cavity walls, 9.20.8.2. fire-resistance rating, 3.1.7.3.
in heavy timber construction, 3.1.4.7. loads on, 9.4.2.2., 9.4.2.4.
in noncombustible construction, 3.1.5.3. sheathing, 9.3.2.4., 9.23.16.
trusses, 9.4.2.2., 9.23.5.5., 9.23.14.11.
in wood-frame construction, 9.23.14.
Roof coverings, 3.1.15.1., 3.1.15.2., 9.26. (see also Roofing)
Roofing
(see also Roof covering)
asphalt shingles, 5.6.1.2., 5.9.1.1., 9.26.1.3., 9.26.2.1.,
9.26.7., 9.26.8.
bituminous, 9.26.2.1.
built-up, 5.9.1.1., 9.26.11.
built-up materials, 9.26.2.1.
cedar shingles and shakes, 9.26.2.1., 9.26.3.1.,
9.26.10.
clay tile, 9.23.4.5.
concrete tile, 5.9.1.1., 9.23.4.5., 9.26.2.1., 9.26.17. definition, 9.26.1.1.
elastomeric sheets, 5.9.1.1., 9.26.2.1.
fasteners, 9.26.2.3., 9.26.2.4.
flashing, 9.26.4.
glass-reinforced polyester, 9.26.14.
installation alternatives, 9.26.1.3.
installation of materials, 9.26.2.2.
installation standards, 5.6.1.2.
material standards, 9.26.2.1.
metal, 9.26.13.
nails, 9.26.2.3.
over wood-based sheathing, 9.26.11.8.
polyvinyl chloride sheets, 5.6.1.2., 5.9.1.1., 9.26.2.1.,
9.26.16.
prefabricated bituminous membranes, 9.26.2.1. prefabricated modified bituminous membranes,
5.9.1.1.
requirement for, 5.6.1.1., 9.26.1.2. rubberized asphalt, 5.6.1.2., 9.26.2.1., 9.26.15. selvage, 9.26.12.
slope of, 9.26.3.
standards for, 5.9.1.1.
staples, 9.26.2.4.
vegetative, 5.6.1.2.
wood shakes, 9.26.10.
wood shingles, 9.26.9.
Roofs
access, 3.2.5.3.
acting as diaphragms, 4.1.8.15., 4.1.8.18. anchorage of, 9.20.11.1., 9.20.11.4., 9.20.17.6. appliances mounted on, 3.6.1.5., 6.4.1.2., 9.10.1.3. arched or curved, snow loads, 4.1.6.10.
beams, 9.23.4.2., 9.23.4.5.
considered as walls, 3.2.1.3., 9.10.1.1.
definition, 9.26.1.1.
deflection, 9.4.3.1.
drains, 5.6.2.2., 9.26.18.2.
egress from, 3.3.1.3., 9.9.7.1.
fire blocks, 9.10.16.1.
fire rating, 9.10.3.3.
fire-resistance rating, 9.10.8.1., 9.10.8.2., 9.10.8.7. fire-retardant-treated wood, 3.1.14.1.
fire separations, 3.2.2.13.
firewall termination, 3.1.10.3.
framing, 9.23.4., 9.23.14.
framing around openings, 9.23.14.2.
gable, snow loads, 4.1.6.9.
guards, 3.3.1.18.
heavy timber construction, 3.1.4.7., 3.2.2.16. helipad loads, 4.1.5.13.
insulation, 9.25.2.2.
joists, 9.23.4.2., 9.23.4.5., 9.23.14.1., 9.23.14.7.,
9.23.14.9.
loads due to use, 4.1.5., 9.4.2.4.
metal decking, 3.1.14.2.
multi-level, 4.1.6.5.
in noncombustible construction, 3.1.5.3. parapets, 3.1.5.3., 3.1.10.4., 4.1.8.18., 5.6.2.2.,
9.20.6.5.
rain loads, 4.1.6.4., 5.6.2.2., 9.4.2.2.
ridge support, 9.23.14.8.
sheathing installation, 9.23.16.3., 9.23.16.4.,
9.23.16.6.
sheathing materials, 9.3.2.1., 9.3.2.4., 9.23.16.2.,
9.23.16.5., 9.23.16.7.
sloped, 4.1.6.12., 9.10.1.1.
snow loads, 4.1.6.2., 4.1.6.3., 4.1.6.5., 4.1.6.7.,
4.1.6.8., 4.1.6.11., 4.1.6.12., 9.4.2.2. sprinklers in lieu of structural fire resistance,
9.10.8.2.
supporting an occupancy, 3.2.2.13., 9.10.8.7. trusses, 9.4.2.2., 9.23.5.5., 9.23.14.11.
of underground structures, 9.13.1.1., 9.13.3.,
9.25.3.5.
venting, 9.19.1.
wind loads, 4.1.7.6., 5.2.2.2.
Roof spaces (see Attics or roof spaces) Roof-top
air-handling equipment, 6.3.2.17. appliances, 3.6.1.5., 3.6.2.1., 6.4.1.2., 9.10.1.3. enclosures, 3.2.1.1., 3.2.2.14., 9.10.4.4.
Rooms, height, 3.7.1.1., 9.5.3. Runners, sheet steel framing
fastening, 9.24.3.1.
in fire-rated walls, 9.24.3.2.
installation, 9.24.3.1.
metal thickness, 9.24.1.3., 9.24.2.3., 9.24.2.4. at openings, 9.24.2.4.
Runs, stairs
aisle steps, 3.3.2.5.
bleacher steps, 3.3.2.12.
curved flights, 3.3.1.16.
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
landing dimensions, 3.4.6.4.
minimum, 3.4.6.8.
rectangular treads, 9.8.4.2.
tapered treads, 3.3.1.16., 3.4.6.9., 9.8.4.3. uniformity and tolerances, 9.8.4.4., 9.8.4.5.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Index
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 S
Safety glass
in guards, 9.8.8.7.
on revolving doors, 3.4.6.15.
standards for, 9.6.1.2.
transparent panels and doors, 3.3.1.19., 3.4.1.8. uses, 9.6.1.4.
washrooms, 3.7.2.5.
Sanitary drainage systems, 1.4.1.2.[A], 9.31., 9.31.2.1., 9.31.5.
Sawtooth roofs, wind loads, 4.1.7.6. Scaffolding, 4.1.1.3.
Screens
in exhaust outlets, 6.3.2.9., 9.32.3.13.
in intake openings, 6.3.2.9., 9.32.3.13.
in natural ventilation openings, 9.32.2.2.
Screw installation
gypsum board, 9.29.5.9.
sheet steel framing, 9.24.1.5., 9.24.3.1.
Screws
dimensions, 9.23.3.5.
fastening to steel studs, 9.24.1.4.
for gypsum board, 9.29.5.5., 9.29.5.7. sheathing, 9.23.3.5.
standard for, 9.23.3.1., 9.24.1.4., 9.29.5.7. subflooring, 9.23.3.5.
wood-frame construction, 9.23.3.5.
Sealants
cladding, 9.27.4., 9.27.8.4., 9.27.9.3., 9.27.9.4.,
9.27.10.3.
material properties, 9.27.4.2.
material standards, 9.27.4.2.
in noncombustible construction, 3.1.5.2.
siding, 9.27.4., 9.27.8.4., 9.27.9.3., 9.27.9.4., 9.27.10.3. windows, doors and skylights, 9.7.6.2.
Sealing
(see also Air barrier systems; Soil gas control;
Waterproofing)
against precipitation, 5.6.2., 9.27.4.
against soil gas, 9.25.3.6.
air barrier systems, 5.4.1.2., 9.10.9.16., 9.10.9.17.,
9.25.3.3.
at chimneys, 9.21.5.2., 9.25.3.3.
ducts, 3.6.5.3., 6.3.2.19., 9.32.3.11., 9.33.6.3., 9.33.6.7. floors-on-ground, 9.25.3.6.
at gas vents, 9.25.3.3.
ground cover, 9.18.6.2.
sill plates, 9.23.7.2.
windows, doors and skylights, 9.7.6., 9.20.13.11.,
9.27.4.
Seasonally and intermittently occupied buildings
application of Part 9, 9.1.1.1.
ventilation, 6.3.1.3. Seating
aisle width, 3.3.2.1.
not fixed, 3.3.2.2.
occupant load, 3.3.2.2., 4.1.5.10.
in showers, 3.8.3.16.
wheelchair space, 3.8.2.3., 3.8.3.21.
Secondary suites
ceiling height, 9.5.3.1.
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
doors, direction of swing, 9.9.6.5.
doors in means of egress, 9.9.6.
doorways, 9.5.5., 9.9.6.2., 9.9.6.3.
egress, 9.9.9.
electrical outlets, 9.34.2.3.
fire protection, 9.10.8.
fire-resistance rating, 9.10.8.8.
fire separations, 9.9.4., 9.10.9.4., 9.10.9.14.,
9.10.9.15., 9.10.10.4., 9.10.12.3. firewalls, 9.10.11.2.
floor area limits, 9.1.2.1.
guards, 9.8., 9.8.8.
handrails, 9.8., 9.8.7.
heating and air-conditioning, 9.33.1.1., 9.33.3.1.,
9.33.3.2.
height of rooms and spaces, 9.5.3. landings, 9.8.6., 9.8.6.3.
ramps, 9.8., 9.8.5.2.
smoke alarms, 9.10.19.
soffit protection, 9.10.12.4.
sound control, 9.11.
spatial separation, 9.10.15.
sprinkler systems, 3.2.5.12.
stairs, 9.8.
ventilation, 9.32.1.2., 9.32.3.8., 9.32.3.9.
Seismic data, 1.1.3. Seismic isolation
definitions and analysis, 4.1.8.19.
design provisions, 4.1.8.20.
Seismic loads (see Earthquake design) Self-closing devices, 3.1.8.13., 3.4.6.13., 9.9.6.7.,
9.10.13.10., 9.10.13.15.
Self-contained emergency lighting, 3.2.7.4., 9.9.12.3. Self-service storage buildings, 3.9.
Self-storage warehouses, 3.3.5.9., 9.9.6.4.
Septic disposal beds, 9.14.6.2.
Service lines under buildings, 3.2.3.21.
Service rooms
access to exit, 9.9.7.5.
application of Code, 3.6.1.1.
and building height, 9.10.4.4.
carbon monoxide alarms, 9.32.3.9.
construction supporting, 9.10.8.5.
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
doors, 9.10.13.12.
doors and door hardware, 3.3.1.13., 3.4.6.11. emergency lighting, 3.2.7.3.
exits, 3.4.4.4., 3.6.2.2.
fire alarm systems, 3.2.4.2.
fire detectors, 3.2.4.10.
fire resistance of supporting construction, 3.1.7.5. fire separations, 3.6.2.1., 9.10.10.3.
heat and smoke detectors, 9.10.18.4.
for housing and small buildings, 9.10.10.
loads on floor or roof, 4.1.5.3.
opening into exit, 9.9.5.9.
ramps and stairways, 3.3.1.14.
roof-top, 3.2.1.1., 3.2.2.14., 9.10.4.4.
Index
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 service equipment in, 3.6.2.3.
under exits, 9.9.5.8. Service spaces
and building height, 3.2.1.1. definition, 1.4.1.2.[A] egress, 3.3.1.24.
emergency lighting, 3.2.7.3. exits, 3.4.4.4.
fire alarm systems, 3.2.4.18.
horizontal (see Horizontal service spaces) lightning protection systems, 3.6.1.3. means of egress, 3.3.1.3.
protection of electrical conductors, 3.2.7.10. ramps and stairways, 3.3.1.14.
signage, 3.3.1.24.
sprinkler systems, 3.2.5.14.
storage use prohibition, 3.6.1.4.
travel distance to exit, 3.4.2.4.
vertical (see Vertical service spaces)
Service water heaters
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
in housing and small buildings, 9.31.6. indirect, 1.4.1.2.[A]
protection from corrosion, 9.31.6.3.
steel, 9.31.6.3.
storage type, 1.4.1.2.[A], 9.31.6.2., 9.31.6.3.
Sewage disposal, 9.14.5., 9.31.2.1., 9.31.5.
Sewage disposal systems, private, 1.4.1.2.[A], 9.31.2.1.,
9.31.5.2. Shafts
installation, 6.7.1.5.
opening into an interconnected floor space, 3.2.8.4. piping in, 6.7.1.5.
service, 9.10.1.3.
Shakes, wood
cladding, 9.27.7.
dimensions, 9.27.7.2., 9.27.7.6.
eave protection, 9.26.5.1., 9.26.10.7.
flashing, 9.26.10.6.
grades, 9.26.10.8., 9.27.7.1.
installation, 9.27.5., 9.27.7.3.
material standards, 5.9.1.1., 9.26.2.1., 9.27.7.1. roofing, 9.26.10.
spacing and joints, 9.26.10.3.
underlay, 9.26.10.2.
Shallow foundations damaged, 4.2.6.4. definition, 1.4.1.2.[A] design, 4.2.6.1.
footing design, 9.4.4.1. incorrect placement, 4.2.6.3. support, 4.2.6.2.
Sheathing
(see also Subflooring)
for braced wall panels, 9.23.13.6.
for bracing and lateral support, 9.23.10.2.
in exposing building face, 9.10.14.5., 9.10.15.2. fastening, 9.23.3.5.
fibreboard as, 9.23.16.7.
installation, 9.23.3.5., 9.23.16.3., 9.23.16.4.,
9.23.17.4., 9.23.17.5.
insulating, 9.20.13.6., 9.27.3.4.
low permeance, 9.25.5.1.
lumber as, 9.3.2.1., 9.23.16.5., 9.23.17.2., 9.23.17.4. material standards, 9.23.16.2., 9.23.17.2., 9.26.2.1. in noncombustible construction, 3.1.5.3.
OSB as, 9.3.2.4., 9.23.16.2., 9.23.17.2.
plywood as, 9.3.2.4., 9.23.16.2., 9.23.17.2.
roofs, 9.3.2.1., 9.3.2.4., 9.23.16., 9.26.2.1.
on steel studs, 9.24.1.5.
beneath stucco, 9.28.1.1., 9.28.4.2.
support, 9.23.10.5., 9.24.3.4.
thickness, 9.23.16.7., 9.23.17.2.
waferboard as, 9.3.2.4., 9.23.16.2., 9.23.17.2. walls, 9.3.2.1., 9.3.2.4., 9.23.17.
Sheathing membranes
installation, 9.27.3.3. - 9.27.3.6.
insulation, 9.27.3.5.
interior of masonry walls, 9.20.13.9.
mansard roofs, 9.23.17.6.
material standard, 9.27.3.2.
for precipitation protection, 9.27.3.1. - 9.27.3.6.
Sheathing paper (see Sheathing membranes) Shingles, asphalt
eave protection, 9.26.5.1., 9.26.7.7. flashing, 9.26.4.
installation, 9.26.1.3., 9.26.7., 9.26.8. material standards, 5.9.1.1., 9.26.2.1. nails, 9.26.2.3.
slope, 9.26.3.1. staples, 9.26.2.4. underlay, 9.26.6.
Shingles, wood
cladding, 9.27.7.
dimensions, 9.26.9.3., 9.27.7.2., 9.27.7.6.
eave protection, 9.26.9.8.
exposure, 9.26.9.6.
flashing, 9.26.9.7.
grade, 9.26.9.2., 9.27.7.1.
installation, 9.26.9.4., 9.27.2.4., 9.27.5., 9.27.7.3. materials, 9.27.7.1.
material standards, 5.9.1.1., 9.26.2.1., 9.27.7.1. roofing, 9.26.9.
Showers, 3.8.3.16.
Sidelights, 3.3.1.19., 9.6.1.4., 9.7.1.1., 9.7.2.1., 9.9.4.3. Sidewalks, 4.1.5.3.
Siding (see Cladding)
Signs
barrier-free accessibility, 3.8.2.4., 3.8.2.10., 3.8.3.9. egress points, 3.3.1.24.
emergency crossover access to floor areas, 3.4.6.18. exit obstruction prevention, 3.4.6.11., 9.9.11.2. exits, 3.4.5.1., 9.9.11., 9.9.11.3.
floor numbers, 3.4.6.19., 3.5.4.2., 9.9.11.5. graphical symbols, 3.4.5.2.
occupant load, 3.1.17.1.
stairs and ramps, 9.9.11.4.
Silencing devices, 3.2.4.18., 3.2.4.20., 3.2.4.22., 3.2.6.7. Sill plates
dimensions, 9.23.7.1. leveling, 9.23.7.2.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Index
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 sealing, 9.23.7.2.
standard for, 9.23.7. Single-family type care occupancy
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
Single-family type private seniors’ residence
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
Site plans, 2.2.2.2.[C]
Site stability, earthquake design, 4.1.8.17. Skylights
area, 9.10.17.9.
in area calculations, 9.10.17.6.
combustible, in corridors, 3.1.13.5. flame-spread rating, 3.1.13.2., 9.10.17.1.
glass standards, 9.6.1.3.
in housing and small buildings, 9.7. installation, 9.7.6.
manufactured and pre-assembled, 9.7.4.
in noncombustible construction, 3.1.5.4. performance expectations, 9.7.3.
requirements, 9.7.2.2.
on roof adjacent to wall with windows, 3.2.3.15. site-built, 9.7.5.
standards for, 5.4.1.2., 5.9.2.1., 5.9.2.2., 9.7.4. thermal characteristics, 9.7.3.3.
in unsprinklered compartments, 9.10.12.2.
Slabs-on-ground
(see also Floors-on-ground) bond break, 9.16.4.4. concrete, 9.16.4.
ducts in or beneath, 9.33.6.7. finishing, 9.16.4.1., 9.16.4.2. insulation, 9.25.2.3. thickness, 9.16.4.3.
Sleepers, 9.30.1.3. Slide escapes, 3.4.1.6. Sliding doors
barrier-free, 3.8.3.6.
exits, 3.4.6.14.
glass used in, 9.6.1.4.
as means of egress, 3.3.1.12., 9.9.6.4. performance expectations, 9.7.3.1., 9.7.3.2. standards for, 5.3.1.2., 5.4.1.2., 9.7.4.2.
Slip-resistance
barrier-free path of travel, 3.8.3.2. bathtubs, 3.8.3.17.
exterior walks, 3.8.3.3.
ramps and stairways, 3.3.1.14., 3.4.6.1. showers, 3.8.3.16.
treads and landings, 9.8.9.6.
Smoke
circulation prevention, 3.2.4.12., 9.10.18.5. contamination, 3.2.6.2., 3.2.8.4.
control of, 3.1.8.14., 3.2.6.1., 3.2.6.9., 3.3.1.7., 3.3.3.5.,
3.3.3.7. Smoke alarms
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
in housing and small buildings, 9.10.19. interconnection, 9.10.19.5.
location, 9.10.19.3.
maintenance and care instructions, 9.10.19.7. power supply, 9.10.19.4.
requirements, 3.2.4.20., 9.10.19.1.
silencing, 9.10.19.6.
smoke detectors in lieu of, 3.2.4.20., 3.2.4.21. sound patterns, 9.10.19.2.
Smoke barrier doors, 3.2.3.20. Smoke barriers, 9.10.9.2., 9.10.9.15. Smoke chambers
clearances, 9.22.9.3. slope, 9.22.7.1. standard for, 9.22.7. wall thickness, 9.22.7.2.
Smoke dampers
access, 3.1.8.11.
as closures, 3.1.8.5.
in fire separations, 3.1.8.7. installation, 3.1.8.11. leakage rates, 3.1.8.4. waived, 3.1.8.9.
Smoke detectors
in air-handling systems, 6.9.2.2., 9.10.18.5. annunciators, 3.2.4.8.
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
design and installation, 9.10.18.3.
duct-type, 3.2.4.12.
in electrical equipment rooms, 3.6.2.7.
in elevators, 3.2.4.11., 3.2.4.14.
in fire alarm systems, 9.10.18.
in lieu of smoke alarms, 3.2.4.20., 3.2.4.21., 9.10.19.8. and release of hold-open devices, 3.1.8.14. requirements, 3.2.4.11., 9.10.18.4.
Smoke developed classification duct requirements, 3.6.5.1. high buildings, 3.1.13.7. plenum requirements, 3.6.4.3. tests, 3.1.12.1.
Smoke shafts (venting to aid firefighting), 3.2.6.6. Smoke stacks (venting for chimneys), 6.3.3.3.
Snow accumulation, 4.1.6.2., 4.1.6.3., 4.1.6.7., 4.1.6.10.,
5.6.2.2. Snow loads
arch roofs, 4.1.6.10.
areas adjacent to roof projections, 4.1.6.7. basic load factors, 4.1.6.2.
curved roofs, 4.1.6.10.
domes, 4.1.6.10.
due to sliding, 4.1.6.11.
exterior platforms, 9.4.2.3.
full and partial, 4.1.6.3.
gable roofs, 4.1.6.9.
and gap between roof and higher roof, 4.1.6.6. multi-level roofs, 4.1.6.5.
snow drift at roof corners, 4.1.6.8., 4.1.6.13. specified, 4.1.6.2., 9.4.2.2.
and structural design, 4.1.6.
valleys in curved or sloped roofs, 4.1.6.12. weight calculations for drifts, 4.1.6.13.
Snow removal, 4.1.6.14. Soffits
projections, 3.2.3.6., 9.10.14., 9.10.14.5., 9.10.15., 9.10.15.4., 9.10.15.5.
Index National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 protection of, 3.2.3.16., 9.10.12.4.
venting, 9.19.1.2., 9.19.1.3., 9.25.2.4. Soil gas control
application of Code, 9.13.1.1.
crawl spaces, 9.13.4.2.
floors-on-ground, 9.16.2.1., 9.25.3.6. requirements, 5.4.1.1., 9.13.4., 9.13.4.2. walls in contact with the ground, 9.25.3.4.
Soil, pyritic
drainage, 9.14.2.1., 9.14.4.1. beneath floors-on-ground, 9.16.2.2. and footings, 9.15.3.2.
foundations on, 9.4.4.4.
not in backfill, 9.12.3.3.
Soils
bearing pressure, 9.4.4.1., 9.4.4.2.
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
erosion control, 5.6.2.2.
excavations, 4.2.5., 9.12.
beneath footings and foundations, 9.12.4.1.,
9.15.1.1., 9.15.3.2.
identification and classification, 4.2.4.3., 9.4.4. subsurface investigation, 4.2.2.1., 4.2.4.1., 4.2.4.2. swelling and shrinking, 4.2.4.11., 9.4.4.4., 9.12.3.3.,
9.14.2.1., 9.14.4.1., 9.15.3.2., 9.16.2.2. temperature, 5.2.1.1., 5.2.1.3., 9.12.2.2., 9.16.2.2.
Solid-fuel-burning appliances
carbon monoxide alarms, 6.9.3.1., 9.32.3.9. design, 9.33.5.3.
fireplace inserts and hearth-mounted stoves,
9.22.10.
and fire separations, 3.6.2.1.
installation standard, 6.2.1.5., 9.22.10.2., 9.33.5.3.
Solid masonry, 1.4.1.2.[A]
Solid masonry units, 1.4.1.2.[A], 9.15.5.1. Sound
protection from, 3.3.4.6., 5.1.1.1., 5.8.1., 9.11. rating for fans, 9.32.3.10.
smoke alarms, 9.10.19.3.
Sound transmission class (STC) calculation of, 5.8.1.2., 9.11.1.2. compliance, 5.8.1.3., 9.11.1.3. definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
Space heaters
(see also Heating appliances) definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
design and standards, 9.33.5.3.
Space heating appliances definition, 1.4.1.2.[A] installation standards, 9.33.5.2.
Spans
maximums, 9.23.4.
steel, 9.23.4.3.
wood, 9.23.4.1., 9.23.4.2., 9.23.4.4., 9.23.4.5.
Spatial separation between buildings, 3.2.3., 9.10.14. Spatial separation between houses, 3.2.3.
Special structures, 3.2.2.2.
Sprinklered buildings or spaces
egress from bedrooms, 9.9.10.1.
fire-resistance rating, 9.10.8.2., 9.10.9.15., 9.10.10.6.
fire separations, 3.3.1.4., 3.6.2.5., 9.10.9.6., 9.10.9.13., 9.10.9.15., 9.10.10.6.
heat and smoke detection, 9.10.18.4.
limiting distance, 9.10.14.3.
lobbies, 3.4.4.2., 9.9.8.5.
openings in exposing building faces, 3.2.3.1.,
9.10.14.4., 9.10.15.4.
openings in fire separations, 9.10.13.8.
and safety within floor areas, 3.3.
service spaces, 3.6.
soffit protection, 9.10.12.4.
and travel distance, 3.4.2.4., 3.4.2.5., 9.9.8.1., 9.9.8.2.,
9.9.8.6.
Sprinklered, definition, 1.4.1.2.[A] Sprinkler systems
for arena-type buildings, 3.1.2.3.
for assembly occupancy (Group A, Division 1),
3.2.2.20.
for assembly occupancy (Group A, Division 2),
3.2.2.23., 3.2.2.24., 3.2.2.26., 3.2.2.27.
for assembly occupancy (Group A, Division 3),
3.2.2.29., 3.2.2.31., 3.2.2.33.
for assembly occupancy (Group A, Division 4),
3.2.2.35.
for barrier-free floor areas, 3.3.1.7.
for basements, 3.2.1.5.
for business and personal services occupancy
(Group D), 3.2.2.55., 3.2.2.57., 3.2.2.58., 3.2.2.59.,
3.2.2.61., 3.2.2.63.
for care, treatment or detention occupancy (Group
B, Division 1), 3.2.2.36., 3.2.2.37.
for care, treatment or detention occupancy (Group
B, Division 2), 3.2.2.38. - 3.2.2.41.
for care, treatment or detention occupancy (Group
B, Division 3), 3.2.2.42. - 3.2.2.46. combustible pipes in, 3.1.9.5., 3.2.5.13., 9.10.9.6. construction of, 3.2.5.12.
for contained use areas, 3.3.3.7.
and controlled egress, 3.4.6.17.
for corridors, 3.1.13.6., 3.3.2.6.
design, 3.2.5.12.
and door hold-open devices, 3.1.8.14.
and egress doorways, 3.3.1.5.
electrical supervision, 3.2.4.9.
exceptions for mezzanines, 3.2.8.2.
for exposing building face, 3.2.3.2.
and fire alarm systems, 3.2.4.1., 3.2.4.7., 3.2.4.8.,
9.10.18.4.
fire department connection, 3.2.5.15.
and firefighting access, 3.2.5.1.
fire hose connections, 3.2.5.10.
fire hose stations, 3.2.5.11.
fire separations in residential occupancy, 3.3.4.2. flame-spread rating, 3.1.13.8.
for garages, 3.2.1.2., 3.3.5.4., 3.3.5.7.
in heavy timber construction, 3.1.4.7., 3.2.2.16. for high buildings, 3.1.13.7.
for high-hazard industrial occupancy (Group F,
Division 1), 3.2.2.70.
for impeded egress areas, 3.2.2.19. installation, 3.2.5.12., 9.10.1.3.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Index
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 for interconnected floor space, 3.2.8.3. for libraries, 3.3.2.13.
in lieu of fire detectors, 3.2.4.10. limiting distance, 3.2.3.1.
for low-hazard industrial occupancy (Group F, Division 3), 3.2.2.80., 3.2.2.82., 3.2.2.84., 3.2.2.86., 3.2.2.88.
for medium-hazard industrial occupancy (Group F Division 2), 3.2.2.74., 3.2.2.75., 3.2.2.77., 3.2.2.79.
for mercantile occupancy (Group E), 3.2.2.64., 3.2.2.65., 3.2.2.67., 3.2.2.69.
and metal roof deck, 3.1.14.2.
in noncombustible construction, 3.1.5.19. plans, 2.2.3.2.[C]
for repair garages, 3.3.5.4.
required, 3.2.2.18.
for residential occupancy (Group C), 3.2.2.47.,
3.2.2.48., 3.2.2.50., 3.2.2.51., 3.2.2.54. self-storage warehouses, 3.3.5.9.
and separation of public corridors, 3.3.1.4. and separation of suites, 3.3.1.1.
and service penetrations, 3.1.9.5.
for service spaces, 3.2.5.14.
and soffit protection, 3.2.3.16.
stages, 3.3.2.14.
and standpipes, 3.2.5.8., 3.2.5.9.
for storage garages, 3.2.1.2., 3.3.5.4., 3.3.5.7. for storage rooms, 3.3.4.3.
for storeys below ground, 3.2.2.15.
system monitoring, 3.2.4.15.
testing, 3.2.5.12.
for theatres, 3.3.2.14.
for underground walkways, 3.2.3.20.
and unprotected openings, 3.2.3.1., 3.2.3.12.,
3.2.3.14., 3.2.3.15., 3.2.3.17.
Stability, structural, 4.1.3.2.
Stages, theatrical, 1.4.1.2.[A], 3.3.1.18., 3.3.2.14. Stairs
cantilevered, 9.8.9.2., 9.8.10. clear height over, 9.8.2.2. concrete, 9.8.9.2., 9.8.10. construction, 9.8.9.
curved, 3.3.1.16., 3.4.6.5., 3.4.6.9., 9.8.3.1. dimensions, 9.8.2.
doors onto, 3.4.6.3., 3.4.6.11., 9.8.6.2., 9.9.4.4.,
9.9.6.6.
in dwelling units, 3.3.4.7., 9.8.
for exits, 9.8.1.3., 9.8.2.1., 9.8.3.1., 9.9.9.3. exit signs with, 9.9.11.4.
exterior, 9.3.1.6., 9.8.9.2., 9.8.9.3.
finishes, 3.4.6.1., 9.8.9.6.
fire blocks required, 3.1.11.4., 9.10.16.1. on fire escapes, 3.4.7.5.
with foundations, 9.12.2.2.
guards for, 9.8.8.
handrails, 3.4.6.5., 9.8.7., 9.8.7.1.
height of, 9.8.3.3.
horizontal exit prohibition, 3.4.6.10. landings (see Landings)
loads on, 9.8.9.1.
in noncombustible construction, 3.1.5.11.
nosings, 9.8.4.8.
permitted configurations, 9.8.3.1. rise, 3.4.6.8., 9.8.3.3., 9.8.4.1., 9.8.4.4. risers (see Risers)
runs (see Runs, stairs)
in secondary suites, 9.8. slip-resistance, 3.4.6.1., 9.8.9.6. spiral, 9.8.3.1., 9.8.4.7.
tolerances, 9.8.4.4.
treads (see Treads)
vertical rise, 3.4.6.3.
width, 9.8.2.1.
winders, 9.8.3.1., 9.8.4.6.
wood, 9.8.9.3., 9.8.9.4.
Stairways
as exits, 3.2.3.13., 3.4.1.4., 3.4.2.3., 3.4.3.3., 3.4.6.6.,
9.9.4.7.
headroom clearance, 3.4.3.4., 9.8.2.2., 9.8.6.4. landings, 3.4.3.3.
lighting, 3.2.7.1., 9.9.12.2., 9.34.2.3.
in means of egress, 9.9.1.1.
mezzanine egress, 9.9.8.6.
projections into, 9.8.7.6.
requirements, 3.3.1.14.
roof-top enclosures, 3.2.2.14.
weather protection, 3.3.5.4., 3.4.6.11.
width, 3.4.3.2., 3.4.3.3., 9.8.2.1.
Standards, materials, 1.5.[A], 5.9.1.1. Standpipe systems
design, 3.2.5.9.
fire department connection, 3.2.5.15. fire hose connections, 3.2.5.10.
fire protection, 9.10.1.3.
installation, 3.2.5.9.
requirements, 3.2.5.8.
testing, 3.2.5.9.
trouble switch, 3.2.4.9.
Staples
for cladding, 9.27.5.4.
dimensions, 9.23.3.5., 9.26.2.4., 9.27.5.4. for roofing, 9.26.2.4.
for sheathing, 9.23.3.5.
for stucco lath, 9.28.3.2.
for subflooring, 9.23.3.5.
for underlay, 9.30.2.3.
for wood strip flooring, 9.30.3.4.
Stapling
asphalt shingles, 9.26.7.4., 9.26.7.6., 9.26.8.5. cladding, 9.27.5.4., 9.27.7.3.
plywood finish, 9.29.6.3.
roofing, 9.26.7.4., 9.26.7.6., 9.26.8.5., 9.26.9.5. sheathing, 9.23.3.5.
sheathing membrane, 9.27.3.5.
siding, 9.27.5.4., 9.27.7.3.
subflooring, 9.23.3.5.
underlay, 9.30.2.3.
wood-frame construction, 9.23.3.
wood shingles and shakes, 9.26.9.5., 9.27.7.3. wood strip flooring, 9.30.3.4.
Static procedure, wind load calculations, 4.1.7.3.
Index National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Steel
beams, 9.23.4.3., 9.23.8.2.
cold-formed, structural design basis, 4.3.4.2. columns, 9.10.14.5., 9.10.15.5., 9.17.3.
design, 9.4.1.1.
door frames, 9.10.13.6.
fire protection, 3.2.2.3., 9.10.7.
flashing, 9.20.13.1., 9.27.3.7.
in foundations, 4.2.3.7.
in foundations, high-strength tendons in, 4.2.3.9. framing, 9.24.
lintels, 9.20.5.2., 9.22.1.2.
protection from corrosion, 4.2.3.10., 5.1.4.2., 9.3.3.2.,
9.17.3.3., 9.20.5.2., 9.20.16., 9.23.8.2. roofing, 5.9.1.1., 9.26.13.
runners, 9.24.1.2., 9.24.1.3., 9.24.2.3., 9.24.2.4.,
9.24.3.1., 9.24.3.2., 9.24.3.6.
siding, 5.9.1.1., 9.27.11.1.
structural design basis, 4.3.4.
studs, 9.24.1.1., 9.24.2.1., 9.24.2.2., 9.24.2.4., 9.24.2.5.,
9.24.3.2. Stone
facings, 9.20.6.6. masonry units, 9.20.2.5. veneer, 9.20.8.5.
Storage
of ammonium nitrate, 3.3.6.6.
of anhydrous ammonia, 3.3.6.3.
on the building site, 1.2.2.2.[A]
of dangerous goods, 3.3.6.2.
of flammable and combustible liquids, 3.3.6.4. of flammable, toxic and oxidizing gases, 3.3.6.3. of materials, 1.2.2.2.[A], 9.10.1.3.
outdoors, 3.2.3.21.
of tires, 3.3.6.5.
Storage areas, theatres, 3.3.2.14. Storage bins
for ash, 6.9.4.1.
for solid fuel, 6.7.2.1. Storage buildings, self-service
application of Code, 3.9.1.2. definition, 3.9.1.1.
fire safety, 3.9.2.
floor areas, 3.9.3.
occupancy classification, 3.9.1.3. sanitary facilities, 3.9.3.2.
Storage garages
(see also Garages)
access through vestibule, 3.3.5.7.
in basements, 9.10.4.3.
in buildings with superimposed major
occupancies, 3.2.2.7.
carbon monoxide alarms, 6.9.3.1.
cladding, 9.10.14.5.
construction, 9.10.14.5., 9.35.
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
doors, 9.9.6.4., 9.10.17.10.
exhaust to, 6.3.2.10.
exposing building face, 9.10.14.4., 9.10.14.5. fire alarms, 3.2.4.1., 9.10.18.8.
fire separations, 3.3.5.6., 9.10.9.16.
headroom clearance, 3.3.1.8.
height, 3.3.5.4., 9.5.3.3., 9.9.3.4.
interconnection of ducting, 6.3.2.7., 9.33.6.7. limiting distance, 9.10.14.4.
in low-hazard industrial occupancies (Group F,
Division 3), 3.2.2.90.
open-air, 9.10.14.4., 9.10.18.8.
openings for vehicular ramps, 3.2.8.2.
pressure less than in adjoining occupancies, 6.3.1.4. as separate buildings, 3.2.1.2.
standpipes requirement, 3.2.5.9.
unprotected openings in, 3.2.3.10., 9.10.14.4. ventilation, 3.3.5.4., 6.3.1.4., 9.32.1.1.
Storage lockers, 3.1.5.17.
Storage racks, earthquake design, 4.1.8.18. Storage rooms
in assembly occupancy, 3.3.2.16.
for combustible garbage, 9.10.10.6.
electrical outlets in, 9.34.2.5.
fire alarm and detection systems, 9.10.18.6. fire detectors in, 3.2.4.10., 9.10.18.4.
fire separations, 3.3.4.3., 3.6.2.5., 9.10.10.6.
for flammable and combustible liquids, 3.3.6.4. flooring in areas of dangerous goods, 3.3.6.7.
Storage tanks, 3.1.1.3.
Storage-type service water heaters, 1.4.1.2.[A],
9.31.6.2., 9.31.6.3. Storefronts (see Fenestration) Storeys
below ground, 3.2.2.15.
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
open-air, 1.4.1.2.[A], 3.2.1.5., 3.2.2.80., 3.2.2.90.,
3.2.3.10., 3.2.5.4., 6.3.1.4., 9.10.14.4. sprinkler system requirements, 3.2.2.18.
Stoves
(see also Cooktops)
clearances, 9.10.22.2.
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
design and installation standard, 9.33.5.2., 9.33.5.3. hearth-mounted, 9.22.10.
installation, 9.10.22.1.
Strandboard (see OSB)
Strapping, floor joists, 9.23.3.4., 9.23.9.3., 9.23.9.4. Streets
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
exposing building face on, 9.10.14.4. fire access routes, 3.2.2.10. unprotected openings facing, 3.2.3.10.
Stress reversal, 4.1.3.2. Structural design
Code requirements, 4
housing and small buildings, 9.4. limit states design, 4.1.3.
and structural loads, 5.2.2.
Structural drawings, 2.2.4.3.[C]
Structural fire protection, 3.2.2.3., 3.2.3.9., 9.10.8. Structural loads and design procedures, 4.1., 5.2.2.,
5.9.3.2., 9.4.
exterior insulation finish systems, 5.9.4.1.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2 Index
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Structural movement
mechanical systems and equipment, 4.1.8.18.,
6.2.1.4., 9.33.4.7.
service water heaters, 9.31.6.2.
Structures, special, 3.2.2.2. Stucco
aggregate for, 9.28.2.2., 9.28.5.1. application, 9.28.6.
fasteners, 9.28.3.1., 9.28.3.2. flashing for, 9.28.1.5.
ground clearance, 9.28.1.4.
for housing and small buildings, 9.28. installation, 9.28.1.2., 9.28.1.3., 9.28.3.1., 9.28.3.2.,
9.28.6.
lath (see Lath, stucco)
materials, 9.28.2., 9.28.5.
mixes, 9.28.5.1.
mixing, 9.28.5.3.
nails for, 9.28.3.
pigments, 9.28.5.2.
sheathing beneath, 9.28.1.1., 9.28.4.2. staples for, 9.28.3.
thickness, 9.28.6.
Studs, steel
bracing and lateral support, 9.24.1.5. dimensions, 9.24.2.1., 9.24.2.5.
fastening, 9.24.1.4., 9.24.3.6.
in fire-rated walls, 9.24.2.4., 9.24.3.2.
in housing and small buildings, 9.24.
metal thickness, 9.24.1.3., 9.24.2.2., 9.24.2.4.,
9.24.2.5.
notching and drilling, 9.23.5.3.
at openings, 9.24.2.4., 9.24.3.5., 9.24.3.7. orientation, 9.24.3.3.
spacing, 9.24.2.1., 9.24.2.5.
standard for, 9.24.1.2.
Studs, wood
bracing, 9.23.10.2.
continuity, 9.23.10.4.
at corners and intersections, 9.23.10.5. dimensions, 9.23.10.1.
lateral support, 9.23.10.2.
lumber grade, 9.3.2.1.
notching and drilling, 9.23.5.3.
at openings, 9.23.10.6.
orientation, 9.23.10.3.
spacing, 9.23.10.1.
standard for, 9.24.1.2.
Subflooring
depressurization, 9.13.4., 9.13.4.3. direction of installation, 9.23.15.4. edge support, 9.23.15.3.
lumber, 9.23.15.7.
materials, 9.23.15.2., 9.23.15.7. nailing, 9.23.15.6.
thickness, 9.23.15.5.
wood-frame construction, 9.23.15.
Subsurface investigation, 1.4.1.2.[A], 2.2.4.6.[C], 4.2.2., 4.2.4.2.
Suites
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
doors and door hardware, 3.3.1.13. fire separations, 9.10.9.13., 9.10.9.14. separation of, 3.3.1.1.
smoke control measures, 3.2.6.2.
Sump pits, 9.14.5.2.
Sumps, evaporative air coolers and air washers,
6.3.2.16.
Supervisory signal and switch for alarms, 3.2.4.9.,
3.2.6.7.
Supplemental energy dissipation
definitions and analysis, 4.1.8.21.
design considerations, 4.1.8.22. Supply air
capacity, 9.32.2.3., 9.32.3.7., 9.33.3.1., 9.33.5.1., 9.33.6.11.
diffusers, 9.33.6.10., 9.33.6.11.
duct clearances, 3.6.5.6.
ducts, 1.4.1.2.[A], 6.3.2.7., 9.32.3.4., 9.32.3.11.,
9.33.6.5., 9.33.6.11.
fans, 9.32.3.4., 9.32.3.5.
outlets, 9.32.3.5., 9.33.6.10., 9.33.6.11.
systems, 9.32.3.4., 9.33.5.
tempering, 6.3.2.8., 9.32.3.4., 9.32.3.5., 9.32.3.8.,
9.32.3.11.
Supporting construction, fire-resistance rating,
3.1.7.5. Supports
beams, 9.23.8.
cladding, 9.20.5., 9.23.10.5., 9.24.3.4.
combustible construction, 3.1.8.2., 9.10.9.8. excavations, 4.2.5.3.
firewalls, 3.1.10.1., 4.1.5.17.
floors, 3.2.1.4., 9.23.4.1., 9.23.4.2., 9.23.4.4., 9.23.8.3.,
9.30.1.3.
hearths, 9.22.5.2.
interior finishes, 9.23.10.5., 9.24.3.4. joists, 9.23.14.7.
noncombustible construction, 9.10.8.4. pipes, 6.7.1.1., 9.33.8.1.
walls, 9.23.9.8.
Surface temperature
of pipes, 6.7.1.4., 9.33.8.2.
of radiators, 6.7.1.3., 9.33.7.2.
Swinging doors, 3.8.3.6. Symbols, 1.2.2.1., 1.4.2.1.[A] Systems
characteristics, 1.2.2.1.[A] storage, 1.2.2.2.[A]
used, 1.2.2.3.[A]
T
Tablet arms, 3.3.2.4.
Tape, sealing, 3.1.5.2., 3.6.5.3., 6.3.2.19., 9.33.6.3. Telephones, 3.2.4.22., 3.2.6.7., 3.4.6.17., 3.8.3.20. Temperature
indoor design, 5.2.1.2., 5.3.1.2., 5.5.1.2., 9.33.3.1. outdoor design, 1.1.3.1., 5.2.1.1., 5.3.1.2., 5.5.1.2.,
6.2.1.2., 9.33.3.2., 9.33.5.1.
Index
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 of pipes, 6.7.1.4., 9.33.8.2.
of radiators, 6.7.1.3., 9.33.7.2.
soils, 5.2.1.1., 5.2.1.3., 9.12.2.2., 9.16.2.2. supply air, 9.33.6.11.
transfer calculations, 5.2.1.3.
Tempering of makeup air, 6.3.2.8., 9.32.3.4., 9.32.3.5., 9.32.3.8.
Tents
clearance to flammable material, 3.1.6.4. clearance to other structures, 3.1.6.3. definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
electrical systems, 3.1.6.7.
fire protection, 9.10.1.3.
fire safety restrictions, 3.1.6.2.
flame resistance, 3.1.6.5.
means of egress, 3.1.6.1.
roof coverings, 3.1.15.2.
Termites, protection against, 4.3.1.3., 9.3.2.9., 9.12.1.1., 9.15.5.1.
Tests
building fire safety, 3.2.9.1.
fire-protection rating, 3.1.8.4., 9.10.3.1. fire-resistance rating, 3.1.7.1., 9.10.3.1. flame-spread rating, 3.1.12.1., 3.1.13.4., 6.9.1.1.,
9.10.3.2., 9.33.6.3., 9.33.6.4.
load, 4.1.1.5., 4.2.4.1., 9.23.14.11.
roof coverings, 3.1.15.1.
smoke developed classification, 3.1.12.1. smoke movement in high buildings, 3.2.6.9. sound transmission, 5.8.1.2., 9.11.1.2. vapour permeance, 9.25.4.2.
Theatres, 1.4.1.2.[A], 3.3.2.14. Thermal barriers
for foamed plastic, 9.10.17.10.
in noncombustible construction, 3.1.5.14., 3.1.5.15. Thermal breaks, 5.9.2.4., 9.7.3.3.
Thermal bridge
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
Thermal bridging, 5.3.1.3., 9.25.1., 9.25.5.1. Thermal insulation systems, 6.5.
Thermal resistance
location and installation of materials, 5.3.1.3. materials in the building envelope, 9.25.5.1. requirements, 5.3.1., 9.25.1.
Ticket booths, 6.3.1.4. Tile
clay, 9.23.4.5.
concrete, 9.23.4.5.
Tile, drainage, 9.14.3.
Tile, floor, 9.30.2.1., 9.30.2.2., 9.30.6. Tile, roof
concrete, 5.9.1.1., 9.26.2.1. eave protection, 9.26.5.1. installation, 9.26.17.
Tile, wall
installation, 9.29.10.1. moisture-resistant backing, 9.29.10.4.
Tires, storage, 3.3.6.5.
Top plates, walls, 9.23.5.4., 9.23.11.4. Total thermal resistance (RSIT value)
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
Towers
earthquake loads and effects, 4.1.8.1. wind loads, 4.1.7.11.
Toxic gases, storage, 3.3.6.3.
Trade shows, 3.1.2.3.
Transformer vaults, 3.6.2.7., 9.10.1.3.
Transparent panels, 3.3.1.19., 3.4.1.8., 9.6.1.4., 9.7.2.1. Transponder, for fire alarm, 3.2.7.10.
Travel distance
banks and mercantile facilities, 3.4.6.17. to egress doorways, 3.3.1.5., 3.3.1.6.
to exit, 3.4.2.1., 3.4.2.3., 3.4.2.4., 9.9.8.2. in fire compartments, 3.3.3.5. measurement of, 9.9.8.1.
mezzanines, 9.9.8.6.
and number of required exits, 9.9.8.2. rooms and suites, 9.9.7.4., 9.9.7.6.
to unlocked doors, 3.4.6.18.
Treads
dimensions, 3.3.1.16., 3.4.6.8., 9.8.4., 9.8.4.3. finishes, 9.8.9.6.
mixed, 9.8.4.5.
nosings, 9.8.4.8.
rectangular, 9.8.3.1., 9.8.4.1., 9.8.4.2. slip-resistance, 3.4.6.1., 9.8.9.6.
tapered, 3.3.1.16., 3.4.6.9., 9.8.3.1., 9.8.4.1., 9.8.4.3.,
9.8.4.4.
thickness, 9.8.9.5.
uniformity and tolerances, 9.8.4.4. in winders, 9.8.4.6.
Treatment occupancy (see Care, treatment or detention occupancy)
Trench, for piping of flammable liquids, 6.9.1.2. Trim, for windows, doors and skylights, 9.7.6.2. Trouble signals, 3.2.4.8., 3.2.4.9., 3.2.6.7.
Trusses
design, 9.4.1.1., 9.4.2.2., 9.23.14.11. lumber grade, 9.3.2.1.
maximum deflections, 9.23.14.11. snow loads, 9.4.2.2.
Tubing for pneumatic controls, 3.1.5.2., 3.6.4.3. Turnstiles, 3.4.3.3., 9.9.5.4., 9.9.5.5.
Tying (see Anchorage)
U
Underground ducts, 6.3.2.12., 9.33.6.7. Underground walkways, 3.1.13.9., 3.2.3.20., 3.2.7.3.,
9.9.12.3. Underlay
fastening, 9.30.2.3.
for flooring, 9.30.2.
hardboard, 9.30.2.2.
installation, 9.26.6.2., 9.26.10.2., 9.30.2.3. materials, 9.26.6.1., 9.30.2.2., 9.30.2.5. material standards, 9.30.2.2.
nailing, 9.30.2.3.
OSB, 9.30.2.2. particleboard, 9.30.2.2.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Index
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 plywood, 9.30.2.2. roofing, 9.26.6., 9.26.10.2. beneath shakes, 9.26.10.2. beneath shingles, 9.26.6. stapling, 9.30.2.3. thickness, 9.30.2.2.
Unit heaters, 1.4.1.2.[A] Universal washrooms, 3.8.3.12. Unprotected openings
(see also Openings)
area increase, 3.2.3.12.
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
in exposing building face, 3.2.3.7.
in exterior walls, 3.2.3.1.
in floors, 9.10.1.3.
maximum area, 9.10.14.4.
and spatial separation between buildings, 9.10.14.,
9.10.15.
unlimited, 3.2.3.10.
in wall exposed to another wall, 3.2.3.14.
Unsafe conditions, 1.4.1.2.[A]
Unstable liquids, 1.4.1.2.[A]
Unusual structures, 3.2.2.2.
Urinals, barrier-free design, 3.8.2.8., 3.8.3.14.
V
Vacuum cleaning systems
emergency shutdown, 3.2.4.13.
fire safety shutdown, 9.10.18.7.
penetrating fire separations, 3.1.9.5., 9.10.9.6. suites served, 9.10.9.19.
Vapour
diffusion, 5.1.1.1., 5.2.1.2., 5.2.1.3., 5.5., 5.9.4.1.,
9.25.4.1., 9.25.5.1.
permeance, 5.5.1.2., 9.25.4.2., 9.25.5.1. transfer, 5.1.1.1., 5.2.1.2., 5.2.1.3.
Vapour barriers
and dampproofing, 9.13.2.5.
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
in housing and small buildings, 9.25.4. installation, 5.5.1.2., 9.23.2.2., 9.25.4.3.
in noncombustible construction, 3.1.5.2. permeance, 5.5.1.2., 9.25.4.2.
products used, 9.25.4.3.
required resistance to vapour diffusion, 5.5.1.1. requirements, 9.25.4.1.
standards for, 5.9.1.1., 9.25.4.2.
Vapour pressure, 5.5.1.1.
(see also Flammable liquids)
Vehicle guardrails, 4.1.5.15., 9.8.8.4. Vehicular passageways, 3.1.13.2., 3.2.3.18. Vehicular ramps, 3.2.8.2., 3.3.1.18., 9.8.8.4. Veneer
flashing, 5.6.2.1., 9.20.13.3.
masonry, 5.6.1.2., 9.20.6.4., 9.20.8.5., 9.20.9.5.,
9.20.12.3.
Vent connectors, 1.4.1.2.[A]
Ventilating systems (see Heating, ventilating and air-conditioning (HVAC) systems and equipment)
Ventilation
of air contaminants, 6.3.1.6.
attic or roof spaces, 6.3.1.2., 9.19.1.
capacity, 9.32.2.3., 9.32.3.3.
crawl spaces, 6.3.1.2., 9.18.3., 9.18.3.1., 9.18.3.2. definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
direct-vent, 9.32.3.8.
dwelling units, 6.3.1.1., 9.32.
electrical equipment vaults, 3.6.2.7.
exhaust, 3.3.1.20., 9.10.9.18., 9.32.3.13.
exhaust ducts and outlets, 6.3.2.10.
garages, 3.3.5.4.
housing and small buildings, 9.32. mechanical, 6.3.1.1., 6.3.1.4. - 6.9.1.2., 9.32.2.3.,
9.32.3., 9.32.3.3. - 9.32.3.5.
natural, 6.3.1.3., 9.32.2.2.
outlets, 9.32.3.5.
requirements, 6.2.2., 6.3.1.1., 9.32.1.2., 9.32.2.1.,
9.32.3.1.
residential, 6.3.1.1.
restaurants, 6.3.1.7.
secondary suites, 9.32.1.2., 9.32.3.8., 9.32.3.9. storage garages, 3.3.5.7., 6.3.1.4., 9.32.1.1. windows for, 9.32.2.2.
Venting
air space in building envelopes, 9.25.5.1., 9.27.2.2. attic or roof spaces, 5.3.1.2., 6.3.1.2., 9.19.1. chimneys, 9.21., 9.33.10.1.
combustion products, 6.3.3.1., 9.32.3.8., 9.33.10.1. crawl spaces, 6.3.1.2., 9.18.3., 9.18.3.1., 9.18.3.2. explosion relief devices, 3.3.1.20.
firefighting, 3.2.8.7.
firefighting in high buildings, 3.2.6.6., 3.2.6.9. heating appliances, 9.21., 9.33.5.2., 9.33.5.3.,
9.33.10.1.
laundry-drying equipment, 9.32.1.3. mansard or gambrel roofs, 9.19.1.4. soffits, 9.19.1.2., 9.19.1.3., 9.25.2.4.
Vents
area, 9.19.1.2.
gas, 9.33.10.1. installation, 9.19.1.2. in stair shafts, 3.2.6.2. standard for, 9.19.1.2.
Vertical service spaces
application of Code, 3.6.1.1., 3.6.3.1. combustible piping in, 3.1.9.5. definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
for dumbwaiters, 3.5.3.2.
elevator machinery, 3.5.3.3.
exhaust ducts, 3.6.3.4., 9.10.9.18.
fire dampers, 9.10.13.13.
fire protection, 9.10.1.3.
fire separations, 3.6.3.1. flame-spread rating, 3.1.13.2. penetrating floor assemblies, 3.2.8.1.
Vestibules
(see also Lobbies)
Index
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 access to storage garages, 3.3.5.7. barrier-free doors, 3.8.3.6.
and closure devices, 3.1.8.19.
elevators for use by firefighters, 3.2.6.5. garages, 3.3.5.4.
high buildings, 3.1.13.7. horizontal exits, 3.4.6.10. interconnected floor space, 3.2.8.4.
Vibrations
combustible isolation connector, 3.6.5.2., 6.3.2.18. floors, 9.23.4.1., 9.23.4.2.
limit states design, 4.1.3.6.
Visual disability, 3.3.1.9. Visual signal devices, 3.2.4.19. Voice communication systems
central alarm and control facility, 3.2.6.7. emergency power supply, 3.2.7.8.
high buildings, 3.2.6.8.
requirements, 3.2.4.22.
speakers, 3.2.4.22.
use of alarm circuitry, 3.2.4.18.
W
Waferboard
as cladding, 5.9.1.1., 9.27.2.4., 9.27.3.6., 9.27.5.,
9.27.10.
fire blocks, 9.10.16.3.
fire protection of soffits, 9.10.12.4.
fire stops, 3.1.11.7.
as interior finish, 9.29.9.
material, 9.3.2.4.
material standard, 5.9.1.1., 9.23.15.2., 9.23.16.2.,
9.23.17.2., 9.27.10.1., 9.29.9.1., 9.30.2.2. as roof sheathing, 9.3.2.4., 9.23.3.5., 9.23.16. as siding, 9.27.3.6., 9.27.5., 9.27.10.
as subflooring, 9.3.2.4., 9.23.3.5., 9.23.15.2.,
9.23.15.5.
thickness, 9.3.2.7.
as underlay, 9.30.2.
as wall sheathing, 9.3.2.4., 9.23.3.5., 9.23.10.2.,
9.23.17.2., 9.23.17.5.
Walk-in coolers/freezers, 3.1.4.2., 3.1.5.7., 9.10.17.10. Walks, moving, 3.2.8.2., 3.8.2.3., 3.8.2.4., 9.8.1.4. Walkways
barrier-free path of travel, 3.8.3.3.
between buildings, 3.2.3.19.
definition, 1.4.1.2.[A]
exterior, 3.8.3.3., 9.9.4.2., 9.9.9.3., 9.10.8.8., 9.10.17.4. fire protection, 9.10.1.3.
smoke detectors, 3.2.4.11.
underground, 3.1.13.9., 3.2.3.20., 3.2.7.3., 9.9.12.3. Wall membranes, 9.10.5.
Wall panels
braced (see Braced wall panels)
factory-assembled, 3.1.5.7. Wall plates, 9.23.3.4., 9.23.11. Walls
(see also Walls, exterior) air barrier systems, 9.25.3.
anchorage, 9.20.11., 9.23.3.4., 9.35.4.3. bracing, 9.23.10.2., 9.23.13.
in carports, 9.35.4.1., 9.35.4.3. cladding, 9.27.
exposed to adjoining roof, 3.2.3.15., 9.10.12.2. fire blocks in, 9.10.16.2.
fire-resistance rating, 3.2.3.7., 3.2.3.11., 9.10.8.3.,
9.10.14.5., 9.10.15.5.
firewalls (see Firewalls)
foamed plastics in, 9.10.17.10.
foundations, 4.2., 9.15.4.
framing, 9.23.10., 9.24.
garages, 9.35.4.1.
as guards, 4.1.5.16.
in health facilities, 3.3.3.5.
height, 9.20.6.
intersecting, anchorage, 9.20.11.
lateral support, 9.20.10., 9.23.10.2.
loadbearing, 3.2.1.4., 9.10.8.3., 9.23.9.8., 9.23.10.1.,
9.23.10.2., 9.23.10.6., 9.23.12.2., 9.23.12.3.,
9.24.1.1.
masonry, 5.6.1.2., 9.20., 9.25.3.4.
masonry veneer, 5.6.1.2., 9.20.6.4. non-loadbearing, 9.23.9.8., 9.23.10.1., 9.23.10.6.,
9.23.12.1., 9.24.
openings in loadbearing, 9.23.10.6., 9.23.12.2.,
9.23.12.3.
openings in non-loadbearing, 9.23.10.6., 9.23.12.1.,
9.24.2.4., 9.24.3.5., 9.24.3.7.
in public corridors, 9.10.17.5.
recesses, 9.20.7.
retaining, 9.3.2.9., 9.4.4.5., 9.4.4.6.
sheathing, 9.23.13., 9.23.17., 9.27.3.4., 9.27.3.5. steel stud, 9.24.
support on framed floors, 9.23.9.8.
supports, 9.23.9.8.
thermal insulation, 9.25.1.1.
thickness, 9.20.6.
wind loads, 4.1.7.5., 4.1.7.6.
Walls, exterior
in combustible construction, 3.1.4.8. enclosing attic or roof space, 3.2.3.3.
exposed to another wall, 3.2.3.14., 9.10.12.3. fire-resistance rating, 3.1.7.2., 3.1.7.3., 3.2.3.7.,
3.2.3.11., 9.10.3.1., 9.10.3.3., 9.10.14.5., 9.10.15.5. at firewall, 3.1.10.6.
in noncombustible construction, 3.1.5.5., 3.1.5.6. restrictions on combustible projections, 3.2.3.6.,
9.10.14.5., 9.10.15.5. thickness, 9.20.6.1.
Walls, interior
finish, 9.29.
not fire separations, 9.10.12.3. thickness, 9.20.6.3.
Wall studs (see Studs, steel; Studs, wood) Warehouses
door swing, 3.3.1.11.
loads on floor or roof, 4.1.5.3. self-storage, 3.3.5.9., 9.9.6.4.
Warm air outlets, 9.33.6.10., 9.33.6.11. Wash fountains, circular, 3.7.2.3.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Index
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 Washrooms
(see also Bathrooms)
barrier-free, 3.8.2.8., 3.8.3.9., 3.8.3.11., 3.8.3.15. emergency lighting, 3.2.7.3.
floor drains, 3.7.2.7.
requirements, 3.7.2.2.
self-service storage buildings, 3.9.3.2. signage, 3.8.3.9.
surface protection, 3.7.2.6.
universal, 3.8.3.12.
Water
(see also Groundwater)
accumulation, 5.6.2.2., 5.7.1.1.
drainage, 5.6.2.2., 9.14.
drainage disposal, 9.14.5.
in excavations, 9.12.1.2.
flooring resistant to, 9.30.1.2.
ingress, 5.7.1.1.
protection against, application of Code, 9.13.1.1. protection against, in exterior insulation finish
systems, 5.9.4.1.
protection against, in fenestration, 5.9.3.5. protection against hydrostatic pressure, 5.7.2. protection from groundwater, 5.7.3.
required protection against, 5.7.1.2.
surface, 5.7., 5.7.1.1.
Water closets
bathtubs, 3.7.2.9.
doorways, 9.5.5.2.
in dwelling units, 9.31.4.1.
floor drains, 3.7.2.7.
grab bars, 3.7.2.8.
for persons with disabilities, 3.8.3.13. requirements, 3.7.2.2.
stalls, 3.8.3.11.
surface protection, 3.7.2.6.
Waterflow detecting devices, 3.2.4.4., 3.2.4.7., 3.2.4.15., 3.2.5.14., 3.2.6.7.
Waterproof flooring, 9.30.1.2. Waterproofing
floors-on-ground, 9.13.3.1., 9.13.3.5. installation, 5.6.1.2., 9.13.3.4.
installation standards, 9.26.15.1.
material standards, 5.9.1.1., 9.13.3.2., 9.26.2.1. preparation of surface, 9.13.3.3.
protection from groundwater, 5.7.3.3. requirement for, 9.13.3.1.
roofs, 5.6.1.2., 9.13.3.1., 9.26.2.1. walls, 9.13.3.1., 9.13.3.3., 9.13.3.4.
Waterproof interior wall finish, 9.29.2. Water supply
for firefighting, 3.2.5.7., 3.2.5.9., 3.2.7.9. hot water, 9.31.4.2.
potable water, 9.31.3.
Water supply valves, 3.2.4.9. Water systems
dwelling units, 9.31.3.
potable water, 9.31.3.1.
Water treatment, evaporative cooling systems,
6.3.2.15.
Weep holes, 9.20.13.5., 9.20.13.6., 9.20.13.8.
Welding operations room, 3.3.1.25. Wells
dry, 9.14.5.3.
water supply, 9.14.6.2.
Wheelchair spaces, and path of travel, 3.8.2.3.,
3.8.3.21.
Wheelchair turning space, universal washrooms,
3.8.3.12.
Winders, 9.8.3.1., 9.8.4.1., 9.8.4.4., 9.8.4.6. Wind load
and air barrier systems, 9.25.3.2. anchorage of building frames, 9.23.6.1. bracing to resist, 9.23.13.
calculation of, 4.1.7., 5.2.1.3., 5.2.2.2. dynamic effects, 4.1.7.2.
dynamic procedure, 4.1.7.8. environmental separation, 5.1.4.1. exterior ornamentations, equipment and
appendages, 4.1.7.11.
external pressure coefficients, 4.1.7.5. external pressure coefficients, low buildings,
4.1.7.6.
fasteners for sheathing or subflooring, 9.23.3.5. full and partial, 4.1.7.9.
interior walls and partitions, 4.1.7.10.
internal pressure coefficient, 4.1.7.7.
pressure differences due to, 4.1.7.10., 5.4.1.2. roof sheathing, 9.23.16.1.
specified, 4.1.7.1.
static procedure, 4.1.7.3.
and structural design, 4.1.7.
structural strength, 9.4.1.1., 9.6.1.3. topographic factor, 4.1.7.4., 9.6.1.3.
wind tunnel procedure, 4.1.7.12.
Windows
(see also Closures; Fenestration; Glass; Skylights) access for firefighting, 9.10.20.1.
airtightness, 5.9.1.1., 5.9.2.3., 9.7.4.
barriers or railings with, 3.3.1.19.
in bedrooms, 9.9.10.1.
caulking and sealing, 9.7.4., 9.20.13.11., 9.27.4.
as closures, 3.1.8.5.
dimensions, 9.32.2.2.
in exits, 9.9.4.5.
in exposing building faces, 9.10.14.4., 9.10.15.4. flashing, 9.20.13.3., 9.20.13.4., 9.20.13.12., 9.27.3.8. glass thickness, 9.6.1.3.
for housing and small buildings, 9.7.
installation, 9.7.6.
manufactured and pre-assembled, 9.7.4.
as means of egress, 9.7.2.2.
for natural ventilation, 9.32.2.2.
in noncombustible construction, 3.1.5.4.
not a means of egress, 9.9.2.3.
opening into window wells, 9.9.10.1.
openings, 9.8.8.1., 9.9.10.1.
performance expectations, 9.7.3.
protection of, 3.3.4.8.
protection in public areas, 9.8.8.1.
protection in residential occupancy, 9.8.8.1. requirements, 9.7.2.2.
Index National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 resistance to forced entry, 9.7.5.3.
sills, 9.20.13.12., 9.27.3.8.
site-built, 9.7.5.
standard for, 5.9.1.1., 5.9.2.2., 9.7.4.
thermal breaks, 5.9.2.4., 9.7.3.3.
unobstructed opening area, 9.9.10.1., 9.32.2.2. watertightness, 5.9.1.1., 5.9.2.3., 9.7.4.
wind load resistance, 5.2.2.2., 9.7.4. Window walls (see Fenestration) Window wells, 9.9.10.1., 9.14.6.3. Wind tunnel procedure, 4.1.7.12. Wired glass
area limits, 3.1.8.18.
area limits waived, 3.1.8.19.
as closure, 9.10.13.5.
in exits, 3.2.3.13., 9.9.4.3.
in fire separations, 3.1.8.16.
in guards, 9.8.8.7.
not to be used as closures, 3.2.3.5.
temperature rise limits waived, 3.1.8.19.
in transparent panels and doors, 3.3.1.19.
in unprotected openings, 3.2.3.12., 9.10.14.4. uses, 9.6.1.4.
in windows, doors and skylights, 5.9.1.1., 5.9.2.1.
Wires and cables
in combustible construction, 3.1.4.3. electrical, 3.2.6.5., 9.34., 9.34.1.5.
in fire separations, 9.10.9.6.
in noncombustible construction, 3.1.5.21. penetrating fire separations, 3.1.9.3.
in plenums, 3.6.4.3.
protection of electrical conductors, 3.2.7.10. storage, 3.3.6.2.
Wood
bracing, 9.23.13.
cant strips, 9.26.4.6., 9.26.4.7., 9.26.11.10. columns, 9.10.14.5., 9.10.15.5., 9.17.4., 9.35.4.2. design and construction, 9.23.
door frames, 9.10.13.3.
doors, 9.7.5.2.
fire-resistance rating, 9.10.6.2. fire-retardant-treated (see Fire-retardant-treated
wood)
floor beams, 9.23.8.1.
floor joists, 9.23.9.
flooring, 9.30.3., 9.30.4.
floors-on-ground, 9.16.5.
floor supports, 9.23.4.1., 9.23.4.2., 9.23.4.4., 9.23.8.3.,
9.30.1.3.
foundations, 4.2.3.1., 4.2.3.2., 9.15.1.1., 9.15.2.4. in heavy timber construction, 3.1.4.7.
in noncombustible construction, 3.1.5.2., 3.1.5.3.,
3.1.5.5., 3.1.5.8., 3.1.5.10.
preservative treatment, 4.2.3.2., 9.8.9.3., 9.23.2.2.,
9.23.2.3.
roofs, 3.1.14.1., 9.23.4.1., 9.23.4.2., 9.23.4.5., 9.23.16. shingles and shakes, 9.26.2.1., 9.26.2.3., 9.26.3.1.,
9.26.9., 9.26.10., 9.27.7.
siding, 9.27.6., 9.27.7., 9.27.8., 9.27.9., 9.27.10. stairs, 9.8.9.3., 9.8.9.4.
structural design basis, 4.3.1.
Wood blocking
cladding, 9.23.10.5., 9.27.5.2.
doors, 9.7.5.2.
with handrails, 9.8.7.7.
interior finishing materials, 9.23.10.5. joists, 9.23.9.3., 9.23.9.4., 9.23.14.9. nailing, 9.23.3.4.
in noncombustible construction, 3.1.5.2. rafters and joists, 9.23.14.7.
roof edges, 9.23.16.6., 9.23.16.7. subflooring, 9.23.15.3.
walls, 9.23.9.8., 9.23.10.2.
Wood-burning appliances
chimney liners, 9.21.3.9., 9.22.2.3.
chimneys and flues, 6.3.3.2., 6.3.3.3., 9.21.1.1.,
9.21.2.1., 9.21.2.2., 9.33.10.2.
ducts serving, 3.6.5.8., 9.33.6.13.
factory-built fireplaces, 9.22.1.4., 9.22.8.1. hearth-mounted stoves, 9.22.10.
inserts, 9.22.10.
installation, 3.6.2.1.
installation standard, 6.2.1.5., 9.22.10.2., 9.31.6.2. masonry fireplaces, 9.22.
product standards, 9.22.2.3., 9.22.8.1., 9.22.10.1.,
9.33.5.3.
protection against depressurization, 9.32.3.8. venting, 6.3.3.1., 9.33.10.1.
Wood-frame construction
alternative structural components, 9.23.1.1. beams to support floors, 9.23.8.
bracing for earthquake and wind loads, 9.23.13. fasteners, 9.23.3.
floor joists, 9.23.9.
framing over openings, 9.23.12.
housing and small buildings, 9.23.
maximum spans, 9.23.4.
notching and drilling, 9.23.5.
roof and ceiling framing, 9.23.14.
roof sheathing, 9.23.16.
sill plates, 9.23.7.
subflooring, 9.23.15.
wall plates, 9.23.11.
wall sheathing, 9.23.17.
wall studs, 9.23.10.
Wood products
dimensions, 9.3.2.6., 9.3.2.7.
for housing and small buildings, 9.3.2. preservative treatment, 9.3.2.9. protection against moisture, 9.3.2.9. undersized, 9.3.2.8.
Y
Yard, as access for firefighters, 9.10.20.3.
National Building Code of Canada 2015 (incorporating Quebec amendments) Volume 2
Index
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

 To Convert
°C
kg
kPa
kPa
kW
L
L/s
lx
m
m2
m3
mm
m3/h
m/s
MJ
N ng/(Pa·s·m2)
Conversion Factors
To Multiply by
°F
lb. 2.205 lbf/in.2(psi) 0.1450 lbf/ft.2 20.88 Btu/h 3412 gal. (imp.) 0.2200 gal./min (gpm) 13.20 ft.-candle 0.09290 ft. 3.281 ft.2 10.76 ft.3 35.31 in. 0.03937 ft.3/min (cfm) 0.5886 ft./min 196.8 Btu 947.8 lbf 0.2248 Btu/h 3.412
1.8 and add 32
   © His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by the National Research Council of Canada, 2022 © Sa Majesté le Roi du chef du Canada, représenté par le Conseil national de recherches du Canada, 2022

